The eComStation installation CD contains many directories and files that can be downloaded 
(digitally) as an ISO file that can then be turned into an actual CD copy of the full product. 


Burning your eComStation ISO's on CD ROM 


When you normally insert a CD ROM and view the contents with a file browser you can see the 
directories and the files on the CD ROM. The location of the files on the CD ROM and the names 
of directories and files are stored in a file system. The file system that is used very often on CD- 
ROM is called ISO 9660. Other well known file systems are HPFS, JFS, FAT and NTFS. 


An ISO file is basically an IMAGE file that contains all directories and files you NORMALLY see 
in the file listing. For this reason you must burn it to a CD in "RAW" or Image mode. We can not 
give instructions for every CD ROM burn package on the market, since not every package uses the 
same terminology. With most CD ROM burn software you can choose to either assign a drive letter 
to your CD burner or write an ISO file to a CD ROM. 


To properly create the exact copy of the original CD from the .ISO file, look for an option in your 
CD burning software that reads something along the lines of "Burn Image" or "Create a CD from 
ISO". Then locate the .[SO file that you have downloaded and burn the image onto a CD. 


When you normally copy files from hard disk to a CD ROM you copy files and/or directories to the 
CD ROM. An ISO file however can not just be copied to a CD ROM as a normal file from a hard 
disk. If you would do that you would end with a CD ROM with only that single ISO file visible in a 
file listing. In addition to directories and files, CD images also contain information about the boot 
sector (among other characteristics) of the CD that it is cloning. 


NOTE: There are other types of CD images available, such as Nero (.nrg) and CUE sheets (.cue & . 
bin), RSJ uses the .trk extension. All these files can be treated as ISO just the same. ISO is a widely 
used format and is also used to create the eComStation Installation CDs. 


Save yourself a lot of time 


Burn the CD's at 4 speed, not faster, this may result in problems with starting from CD ROM or 
installing software from CD ROM! If your CD recorder does not supporting recording a CD at 4 
speed, then choose the lowest burn speed you can select. 


Download: 


First you need to download the ZIP files containing the eComStation ISO files. These are available 
for registered customers and can be downloaded as (very large) zipfiles. It is best to use a Download 
Manager that you are familiar with, so that the download can be resumed if the connection drops. 
This will help to ensure that the file 1s retrieved fully intact. 


The following pages describe burning the ISO under eComStation (or OS/2) and Windows and 
assume you succesfully downloaded the ISO files. 


Creating eComStation install CD's under OS/2 /eComStation with RSJ 


Before you start the download of the eComStation images make certain you have enough diskspace. 
Each ZIP file requires between 400 to 550 MB of diskspace. In addition, the ISO file also needs to 
be unzipped. (An ISO file for a CD has a maximum size of 650 MB). 


The following instructions apply only if you have installed the commercial CD ROM burn software 
RSJ for OS/2/eComStation (this is available from www.rs].de) 


From your Desktop open the folder “Local System” and “Drives”, select the proper “Drive ?” and 
the folder (directory) that contains the ISO images. (On an OS/2 System the folder Local System 1s 
called “OS/2 System”. 















Folder Edit View seine Help 


= Command a Tae cic : 2 = 


$ =. al ey 
— Bare i i o e 


Drives, 











A er Edit View Selected. REISI Drives 


Folder Edit View Selected Help 


fy fy ay ay ay ED | & g i Aig „424KB free, 4,097,488 KB total 











DriveA DriveB DriveC DriveD DriveE Driver DriveG 4 orm 


k A Ca) SEINST_REXX 
Victripm CS) Mcp 1FIXPAK3NLBETA 
R) mmecsbuilder 








Drive | (3,922 of 4,001 MB free) 


From your Desktop, open the folder that RSJ created. Open the “CD VIEW” folder and then open 
“CD recorder”. Drag and Drop the ISO file in the “CD VIEW CDR” window. Drag and drop means 
that you select the ISO file in the orginal folder and press the right mouse button. Hold the mouse 
button and drag it to the “CD VIEW CDR” window. Release the mouse button. On an OS/2 System 
the folder Local System is called “OS/2 System”. Set the burn speed to 4x and press the red button 
(third button from the right as shown in the picture below). It will take about 15 minutes for a CD to 
be recorded. When its finished, press the button next to the record button to finalize the CD ROM. 





- Go's Wizard — 
Get Acrobat Reader RSJ Software Homepage < Start Error =k CD Writer Control RSJ CD se i Installation 


















Folder Edit View Selected EEF 








RSJ CD Boot ee CD Recorder 





"CD View" (L er Hard Disk [C\PROGRAMS\RSJCD\Tracks] 












r CDROM [S] 
CD Recorder 


er ie DD View GbR 


TSIM] Speed fx F#m Oe 
Unknown CD 


Icon | Title 
a Ss Track 07 

















ais 
Type | Length | (MB) | Pause Time | Source 
COROM 61:09 537.5 


















Pep EUs ei ree 


el i : Rae CUS En] 


RSJ CD Boot 





To burn an ISO with RSJ you should *never* give your CD burner a drive letter and copy the ISO 
file to this drive letter. 


Creating eComStation install CD's under Windows 
This is a short description on how to create eComStation installation CD's under Windows. 
This section was written by Robert Traynor (BobT), november 2003. 


Using Nero 6 You can use Nero (www.nero.com) to burn the *.ISO or (RSJ) *.TRK files to CD- 
rom blank disk. Both *.ISO and *.TRK files will be treated by Nero as one and the same. 


7 fase 6 and a a Wizard interface or Cancel the manual Interface as shown below. 


E Foil lane daaa aan lai Daa aea 
TÈ peis A TESSE a En 
TE pheri tit, 
cae ee a cheap ea a 
Eri EEn 
Ei me 
EE ever oho Masri | 
(Fe vate weer eS 














Large 
aut Ahin 


Ẹ Pamet tink prapa See 
linir ineen 


Den ava... i 
= 








Make sure you have the setting ticked to "Finalize" the CD. There are NO other settings you can or 
should change. 






Pilni =} 


VS sa- eee Le a 






th aa a- oradh = gibt GAFAT ees ee 


Sie bd ki SGER le Os oi 















Se Se ae 
PORES SmE 


Possible problems 


Usually Nero will complain if the ISO image is badly corrupted, but minor corruptions can be 
ignored. If you cannot see the resulting cd, check it after a reboot. 


If after the reboot there are still no files visible on the CD, you might have a windows problem with 
another program interfering with the burning by Nero 6, a faulty cd burner, a faulty ISO image or 
even faulty or inappropriate cd blanks. 

The list of possible problems is endless. 


One example of interfering programs is Easy CD Creator by Roxio and Nero. These cannot be 
installed in the same Windows installation together. Either use one or the other. Both programs will 
burn ISO /images to an empty CD recordable. 

The CD disk MUST be a new and completely BLANK before you start. 


Checking the ISO with WinISO You can open the ISO image in a program like WinISO which is 
available in a trial mode with some restrictions and available from www.winiso.com 


{2 Wint- : | 3 = 
File ‘Actions: "Bootable CD Neils Opties =a 


Hon hosted Ea ee 
Files of arga 
Teta Byee bpe Foma 2 =E 





About the unregistered version of WinISO: 
The limit of unregistered version are as following: 


- Can not extract a file greater than 3MB. 
- Can not convert an image greater than 100MB. 


- Can not save an image greater than 100MB. 
- Can not save an image greater than 100MB as new file. 


If the ISO opens under WinISO and you can view some of the files inside then it would at least 
indicate that the ISO was likely to be ok. 












t WnESO - F: iWork aCS\ero and ecs mages ecsfinalisa 
fie Actions Boctable D Convert Options Help 











| 
9 BOOTIMGS let OT GS Directoy THAN. 
+ E oo iat ican Directoy 200A. 2 
Gi DISK IGS bes skims Dircectiy 2003.00-28 0. 
# 1) ECS a ECS Direct) 2004-0 2. 
A IBMINST Bac Directoy 3003-00-08 |... 
tal TED ro Directoy 2003-15... 
E ae see Dreactny 200-150, 
a my FS IME Ose Drazmy 200-150 
a [J PSFONTS P CSAMAGE Directory JUALO: 
ral FP! Sal x 
PAFOS. k Director: INOS D.. 
BOOT MEHL TH Tent Document AEJEA 200309-25.0.., 
LICENSE THT Tat Docuarmn! 10K. 200-16 2 
-LYMHELP INE Sahuo Information a maB 
onae SR HAKEDISIBAT MS-00S Baich File BRM 200-27 2 
Se CI Cay eee kee CE Une T ri 
ToiltMe | Tir | tee THOME 
TRK versus ISO: 


A *.TRK file is to all intents and purposes a *.ISO, the only real difference between trk and iso is 
that trk has a 40-byte header at the beginning of the *.trk file which contains information specific to 
RSJ CD writer. 


To load either type of file in Nero 6, just put a * in the entryfield and it should load. If you wish to 
change a *.trk file to a pure *.1so file then you can use a small utility to do so. This utility can be 
found at Hobbes: http://hobbes.nmsu.edu/pub/os2/apps/mmedia/cd/cd-t/trk2iso.zip 


There are both Win32 windows and OS/2 versions in the same zip file. 


Conclusion: 


It is entirely possible to create installation CD's of eComStation under Windows. Hopefully thes 
small instructions makes it easier for you to do so. 


