Quick 
Installation 
Guide 








Beans 


Introduction 


This Quickguide is intended to help you get started installing eComStation 2.0 on your 
computer or in a virtual machine. The eComStation help is split up into 2 sections. 

The first section is this Quickguide. The second is the online help, available from 
within the graphical eComStation installer and from the installed system. The 
information in the Quickguide is intended to help you prepare to install eComStation 2.0 
on your system. It provides information you may need to boot the installation CD and 
to get the graphical installer loaded and running. The online help provides detailed help 
for the graphical installer and various post-installation tasks. We especially recommend 
that you read Chapter | of this Quickquide if you are installing to a large disk drive. 


Chapter 1, eComStation 2.0 Quickguide, contains important information about using 
up to a 2 terabytes hard disk and tells you what you need to take into account when 
installing multiple Operating Systems on your hard disk. 


Chapter 2, Booting from eComStation CD #1, explains how to set up your system to 
boot from and use the Pre-boot menu of eComStation 2.0 CD #1. The Pre-boot menu 
loads the proper drivers depending on what hardware is detected. You can also use this 
chapter to help resolve startup problems. 


Chapter 3, Continuing the Installation Process, explains the basics of using the 
graphical Guided Procedure installer which is started after you accept the Pre-boot menu 
selections. This section also explains how the Guided Procedure online help works and 
where you can find more information. You should be able to find the information you 
need to complete the installation in the online help once the Guided Procedure installer 
is running. This chapter also describes how to use CD #2 and how to set up connections 
to Windows/Linux computers in your local network, etc. 


Chapter 4, What Hardware is Supported by eComStation 2.0, is intended to help you 
understand the computer hardware that eComStation supports and where you can find 
more information to resolve hardware-related installation issues. This chapter might be 
useful if you encounter problems booting from eComStation CD #1 or if you are having 
other problems installing eComStation. 


Chapter 5, Getting Support/Resolving Problems/General FAQ, will help you find 
additional resources and explain how to get support. 


Chapter 6, License Agreement/Trademarks/Acknowledgments, is the legal section of 
the manual and describes your rights and duties as to the usage of eComStation 2.0. 


1. eComStation 2.0 Quickguide 


Thank you for purchasing eComStation 2.0. 


This Quickguide is intended to assist you with starting the installation of eComStation 
from CD #1 and also contains important installation notes. Additional online help is 
available directly in the graphical installer and can be accessed easily by depressing the 
help button in the right-hand corner of the screen. 


eComStation 2.0 has all the features you are used to from previous versions of 
eComStation plus both major and small improvements. To list a few; 


ACPI enables you to use modern systems with multiple CPU's. 

and allows hardware that needs ACPI to manage it to work. 

The bootable JFS file system gives your eComStation a major performance 
increase and allows applications and the Operating System to load much faster. 
The Panorama video driver enables eComStation to work with just about any 
video card. 

Improvements in network support with include more NIC drivers and drivers for 
WiFi chip set. Support with the Samba protocol to access shared network 
drives. 

Major improvements in the installer to support virtual machines such as 
VirtualBox, Virtual PC etc. 

Support for booting and installing from USB-attached CD drives. 

Better support for modern hardware while preserving support for legacy devices. 
Major improvement in audio support with the updated UNIAUD driver 

Support of hard disks up to 2 TB. 

Comes with free virus scanner, ClamAV (see CD #2 for details). 

It is strongly recommended that you no longer use versions of eComStation 
older than eComStation 2.0 in conjunction with Windows Vista/7 because you 
can lose the Windows disk signature from your disk which can damage your 
Windows partition. eComStation 2.0 preserves the Windows disk signature. 


As of May 2010, eComStation 2.0 does not require any fixpaks to be installed. The last 
fixpaks and fixes released by IBM are already integrated into eComStation. Installing 
the latest IBM fixpaks on eComStation is not recommended. In fact, installing fixpaks 
from IBM such as fixpak 5 or 6 from MCP 2 may render your eComStation 2.0 non- 
functional. These IBM fixpaks may back level files required by bootable JFS or other 
system components. 


1.1 Important eComStation 2.0 Installation Note 


Before you start to install eComStation 2.0 on your system, please read the following 
chapter carefully to help you make the right choices. eComStation 2.0 supports hard 
disks up to 2.0 Terabytes, but there are some things to take into consideration. 


In this manual, you will find multiple references to two programs called the 
“DiskChecker” and “MiniL VM”. 


The DiskChecker is a program that is loaded when booting from the eComStation 2.0 
CD #1. The DiskChecker starts to run when you see the line “Checking fixed disk 
integrity.” If any errors are detected, they will be displayed after the eComStation 2.0 
boot logo is displayed. After the boot logo, no graphics are displayed; just text. 


MiniLVM is a program to manage the volumes/partitions on your hard disks. You can 
start this from eComStation 2.0 CD #1 as follows; once the system is booted into the 
GUI installer, enter your registration key. Click on the “next” button until “Select the 
installation volume” appears and click on “Manage Volumes”. 


This chapter is important if: 


1. The hard disk you want to install eComStation 2.0 to is bigger than 512 GB or if 
one of the additional hard disks in your system for data is bigger than 512 GB; 

2. Your hard disk is bigger than 512 GB and/or you have Windows Vista/7 
installed or want to install it; 

3. You booted from the eCS 2.0 CD #1 install disk and got a message from the 
“DiskChecker” that referred you to the manual. The DiskChecker will refer you 
to the manual to resolve certain disk layout issues it discovers; 

4. You want to dual boot other Operating Systems such as Linux and older 
versions of Windows. 


Before setting up your hard disk, make a tested backup of your hard disk when 
modifying partitions on your hard disk(s), if any are present. A lot of pre-installed 
systems with Windows Vista/7 do not ship with recovery media (CD or DVD) in order 
to reinstall Windows. The recovery partition is also on the hard disk itself. There is a 
risk that this recovery partition can be lost when modifying the partition layout. It is 
recommend that you use the tool that comes with your pre-installed Operating System 
to create recovery DVD/CD's first. Make certain you backup all personal data. 


1.2 Empty hard disk bigger than 512 GB, No Operating System Installed 


If you have an empty hard disk with no Operating System installed and you want to 
install eComStation it or you want to use a hard disk as an additional data drive larger 
than 512 GB, you need to completely partition the HDD with MiniLVM from 
eComStation. You should not use other partition tools on the drive like Partition Magic 
or the Windows DiskManager! For example, if you want to install Windows and/or 
Linux next to eComStation, you need to create all the partitions for Windows/Linux 
with eComStation. You can then choose to format the partition with the proper file 
system in the installer of the Operating System you want to install. 


A good layout for a disk that will contain Windows XP/Vista/7 is to install the 
eComStation BootManager first and then use the eComStation supplied tools to create a 
primary partition to contain the Windows XP/Vista/7 installation. Place the primary 
partition for Windows directly after the eComStation BootManager partition and then 
create the other logical partitions. When running the Windows installer, do not delete 
the primary partition but rather, select it as the target partition for Windows installation. 


After Windows XP/Vista/7 is installed next to the eComStation BootManager, boot 
from the eComStation CD #1 and start MiniLVM. Use MiniLVM to mark the 
eComStation BootManager partition as active/startable. Add your Operating System(s) 
to the BootManager menu and you will be able to start them via the BootManager. 


The above scenario is not possible with most recovery DVD/CD disks supplied by 
computer vendors because most recovery disks wipe the hard disk and do not provide an 
option to select the install partition. Either you need to use a Windows OEM/retail disk 
that allows you to select and setup the partition size or you need to use the procedure 
described in section 1.3. 


If you do not want to use the copy of Windows or any other Operating System already 
installed on your hard disk and the disk is larger than 512 GB, boot from eComStation 
CD #1 and wipe your hard disk. If you get a warning from the DiskChecker, type 
CTRL-C to bypass this warning, since you will erase any information from the disk 


anyway. eComStation File Tools Help 
Resize disk 
Checks 
When the graphical part of the installer has started, click on Eomal dik 
the “next” button and agree to the eComStation 2.0 license 
agreement. On the “Installation Type” screen, choose 
“Management console”. From the Management console menu, select the "Disk" item 


and select “Initialize disk”. This will display a list of all hard disks and USB-attached 











storage available media on your system. 





NN ©) O) ©) 





Select the correct disk (normally 
number 1 or 2), then select to 
remove the MBR (Master Boot 
Record). You will be asked twice 
for confirmation. After a 
countdown of 5 seconds, your disk 
will be erased and the system will 
reboot. Select to boot again from 
the eComStation 2.0 install CD. — RARE 


01 Volume 2 998.1 JFS Prin 


E t ation fr 
>> Erase MBR information from this disk << 





If you would like to preserve the Windows environment on your disk, please read one of 
the two following sections: 


1.3 Hard Disk Bigger than 512GB with a Pre-loaded Operating System. 


This section applies when you encounter the below message during startup from the 
eCS 2.0 CD #1 install CD: 


“A partition was detected on disk 1 which extends beyond the proper 
cylinder boundary. You will have to resize this partition using the 
partition resizing tool (available during installation) if you wish to use 
the disk. Refer to the user manual for more information.” 


When you depress enter at this stage of the startup process of eComStation, it will 
restart your computer. If your system holds a secondary hard disk (disk 2), the above 
warning may be displayed, but when you have depressed enter, your system will 
continue to boot into the installer. This means you are able to use disk 1 to install eCS 
2.0 but you can not access disk 2 from eComStation. The same strategy described for 
disk 1 applies to any second hard disk in your system. You need to create any partitions 
you want to access on disk 2 below the 512 GB boundary. 


If your hard disk is bigger than 512 GB and it already has a non-OS/2/eComStation 
Operating System installed (for example Windows), eComStation will not be able to use 
the hard drive. The reason for this is that the drive geometry used can not be fully 
supported by eCS 2.0. This will be addressed in future versions of eComStation. 


Currently, eComStation can access only the first 512 GB of the disk. If you have a 
1.5 TB disk and you want to use 100 GB of disk space for eComStation volumes, you 


need to reduce the main Windows partition to 400 GB so the partitions you want to use 
for eComStation volumes fit below the 512 GB disk boundary. There may NOT be 
any partitions in the area above the 512 GB boundary on your disk. You will need 
to delete any system recovery partitions that reside above the 512 GB boundary. 


Most computers come with Windows Vista/Windows 7 pre-installed. Both Windows 
versions have a built-in disk resizer, so to resize your hard, disk start Windows Vista/7: 


click on the logo in the left hand corner of the screen in Task Bar (Start) 
choose Control Panel 

set menu to Category, not Small/Large Icons 

select System and Security at the bottom of the screen Create and 
Format Hard Disk Partitions lists all storage media in and attached to your 
computer, 

depress the left or right mouse button on the large partition of your hard drive 
choose Shrink Volume from the context menu, 

If you cannot resize your partition below the 512 GB boundary; 

go to My Computer 

click the right mouse button on the partition you need to resize, 

choose the option Tools and select Error Checking to run CHKDSK - the 
system will need to restart for this, 

run the Windows disk Defragmenter. 


You might need to repeat this procedure 2 or 3 times to clear the end of the disk 
partition. 


Note: if you want to create a partition for data exchange between Windows and 
eComStation, this partition also needs to be below the 512 GB disk boundary. 


Ensure that any Operating System you want to start via the eComStation BootManager 
is located below the 512 GB boundary. If you install an Operating System with its 
bootable partition above the 512 GB boundary, it will most likely not boot that 
Operating System via the eComStation BootManager. 


For more information about installing the eComStation BootManager, please read the 
section “Loading Other Operating Systems Next to eComStation” located at the end of 
this chapter. 


After you have created free disk space below the 512 GB boundary, you can boot from 
the eComStation installation CD #1 and install eComStation. You may be asked by the 
DiskChecker if the LVM fingerprint information should be fixed. If asked, answer 


6 


“Yes” to this question. After you update the fingerprint information, the system will 
reboot. After the reboot, restart the eComStation installer from CD #1 and install 
eComStation. 


If you start MiniLVM to create partitions and you still get the warning about a corrupt 
partition table/MBR; 


click on Cancel, right hand corner of the screen, 

select Maintenance console from the menu, 

select Initialize disk - lists all hard disks and USB-attached storage media on 
your system and let the utility delete the LVM information. 


Normally, to delete the LVM information, you need to select disk 1 or 2 and then 
request the erase from the menus. In this case, let the countdown expire and allow the 
utility to delete the LVM information. After the information is deleted, reboot from the 
eCS 2.0 install CD and restart the install process. 


You can now install eComStation on the disk in the free disk space you created. 


We recommend that you install the eComStation BootManager first, then create a 
logical partition in which to install eComStation 2.0. This logical partition will extend 
to the 512 GB boundary and MiniLVM will display that your hard disk has only 512 
GB of disk space. This is the expected behavior. 


The logical partition can later be expanded with your Operating System's DiskManager. 
In our research, we concluded that the Windows 7 DiskManager will refuse to expand 
the logical partition created by eComStation. We recommend that you use the 
commercial package DFSee to expand the logical partition. You may download the 
bootable CD version here: http://www.dfsee.com/dfsee/cdrom.php 


We recommend that you create the partitions above the 512 GB boundary while running 
DFSee booted from the DFSee bootable CD. Once you have created a partition above 
the 512 GB boundary, you will not be able to modify the disk layout using 
eComStation's DiskManager (MiniLVM). This means you need to carefully plan your 
disk layout before performing the eComStation installation. 


Operating Systems like Windows and Linux can access the rest of the disk for data 
storage. 


1.4 Hard Disks Smaller than 512 GB 


When booting from the eComStation 2.0 CD #1, the DiskChecker may display the 
following message: 


“A partition was detected on disk 1/2 which extends beyond the proper 
cylinder boundary.” 


If this occurs and you wish to install eCS to this disk drive, you will have to resize this 
partition using the partition resizing tool. Refer to the user manual for more information. 


If you get the above message, you need to depress enter and let the installer start. 

Once you have entered the registration key in the eCS installer, start MiniLVM as 
follows: in the left hand column of the screen, the current menu is highlighted during 
the install phase. Click on Next until you see Manage Volumes and select it. This will 
start the application MiniLVM which will result in getting the error message “Disk 1 
reports a corrupt partition table”. You may ignore this warning. From the menu bar 
choose the option System > Partition Resizing Tool. 


The partitions are listed in the order they are found on your hard disk. In the event you 
got the above error message from the DiskChecker, you need to make the last partition 
on the reported disk (1 or 2) smaller. Make certain you allow enough space for eCS to 
install, leaving 10 or 20 GB to create a partition for eComStation. 


If you can not create enough free disk space, boot into Windows and perform the 
following task. Go to My computer and click with the right mouse button on the 
partition you need to resize. Choose the option tools and select error checking. This 
will allow you to perform a CHKDSK. Your system will need to restart for this. After 
you have done this, run the Windows disk Defragmenter. You might need to repeat this 
procedure 2 or 3 times to clear the end of the disk partition. 


When the disk resizer is finished resizing the partition and you click on Finish, click on 
Proceed to reboot the system. After the reboot, select to boot from the eCS 2.0 CD #1 
again. The DiskChecker might ask you to repair the LVM fingerprint information on 
your hard disk. If prompted, answer “Yes” and the system will reboot again. 


At this point, you may choose to boot from the eComStation 2.0 CD #1 again and create 
the required volumes with MiniLVM. If you still get an error message from MiniLVM 
that disk 1 or 2 is corrupt; 


Click on the Cancel button of the installer in the right hand corner of the screen 
of the eComStation installer, 

Start the Maintenance console from the menu, 

Select the Disk menu 

Select Initialize Disk 


The Initialize Disk tool will show all hard disks and USB-attached storage media on 
your system. Normally, you will need to select disk number 1 or 2 (whichever is your 
hard disk). Then choose to erase the LVM information. After the 5 second countdown 
timer expires, the LVM information will be deleted. The system will be automatically 
rebooted afterwards. 


After the reboot, the DiskChecker will, if you allowed the Initialize disk tool to erase 
the LVM information, ask to repair the LVM fingerprint information. Once this is done, 
one final reboot is performed. You can now boot from the eComStation eCS CD #1 and 
finish the eComStation installation by installing to the volume created with MiniLVM. 


1.5 Loading Other Operating Systems Next to eComStation 


It is strongly recommended that you use the eComStation BootManager to start 
eComStation and other Operating Systems from your hard disk. Other Boot Managers 
might work, but may make the installation complicated. If your computer came with 
Windows Vista/7 pre-installed, note which partition you add to the eComStation 
BootManager to start Windows. If you have Windows Vista/7 pre-loaded on your 
computer, you need to check how Windows is installed on your HDD. 


Most Windows Vista/7 pre-loads are installed with 2 primary partitions on one hard 
disk. The first partition on the disk is about 100 to 200 MB, known as the Windows 
BootManager followed by the Windows partition itself, which normally uses the rest of 
your hard disk. Add the small Windows partition to the eComStation BootManager. 


When your system starts up, it should work like this: 
eComStation BootManager è Windows BootManager? Windows main partition. 


In some situations, the eComStation bootmanager will render the Windows 7 boot 
partition unstartable. Please refer to http://www.ecomstation.com/fag/560 for more 
information on this problem. 


1.6 Installing the eComStation BootManager, I get “Partition Alignment 
error” 


When you select to install the eComStation BootManager from MiniLVM and you get 
the warning Partition alignment error; 


Create a primary partition of about 20 MB with MiniLVM. 
Select to install the eComStation BootManager 
Delete the 20 MB partition you just created. 


Since with most pre-loads of Windows Vista/7 on computers two primary partitions are 
already in use and the eComStation BootManager is also a primary partition, it is 
recommended that you create a logical partition in which to install eComStation, 
otherwise you cannot exchange data between eComStation and other Operating 
Systems. 


1.7 Coexisting with Other Operating Systems - miscellaneous 


In the previous sections of this chapter, we described how to deal with Operating 
Systems on your hard disk if the hard disk is bigger than 512 GB or you are using 
Windows Vista/7. This section will provide some hints on how to deal with Linux and 
older version of Windows, such as Windows 98/Me. 


To exchange data between Operating Systems, make sure you have a volume 

that is readable and/or writable by both systems. Almost all Operating Systems can use 
FAT 16 partitions (maximum size of the partition is 2GB) but otherwise, special drivers 
will be required to make this possible. 


The FAT 32 driver is installed by default with eComStation 2.0. You can copy data 
back and forth between Windows and eComStation. 

If you are installing eComStation 2.0 to a system that has an older version of the 
BootManager installed from either MCP or eComStation 1.0 or 1.1, we recommend that 
you delete the older BootManager and install the eComStation 2.0 BootManager 
version. 


There was a defect in Windows 2000 that destroyed the BootManager partition which 
was corrected in service pak 3. To replace the existing BootManager, run MiniLVM 


and use the system menu options. 


The eComStation 2.0 BootManager will not be destroyed by versions of Windows 2000 


10 


that do not have service pak 3 installed. 


My Computer in Windows NT 4.0, 2000, XP, Vista and 7 may show a drive letter for 
eComStation partitions. If you double click on that drive icon for the eComStation 
partition, Windows will report that it cannot read that partition and will offer to format 
the partition. 


DO NOT accept this offer since it will render your eComStation volume useless. For 
your own safety, we recommend that you use the Windows DiskManager to remove the 
drive letters from eComStation partitions. 


To access the DiskManager, go to Administrator Tools > Computer Management > 
Storage and remove the drive letters from the partitions. Windows will no longer list 
the HPFS/JFS partitions; however, this will not affect the drive letters defined for 
eComStation itself. The eComStation drive letter assignments are stored in a different 
way from Windows. 


Windows 95, 98 or Millennium Edition 


If you have installed eComStation and you are going to install a DOS-based Operating 
System like Windows 95, 98, 98SE, or Windows ME, be aware that these systems will 
install on the very first primary partition of your hard disk only. It may be advisable to 
resize and/or move your eCS partition with the aid of a partition manager to allocate 
free space for the creation of a primary partition at the beginning of your hard disk. 


If you install Windows after eCS is installed, some versions of Windows will generate a 
warning about BootManager being disabled or report that you will no longer be able to 
start OS/2. You may ignore these warnings. When the installation has finished, you can 
re-enable BootManager by booting eCS from the installation CD#1 and run MiniLVM 
again to set the BootManager as the active partition. 


Linux 
eComStation can be installed without problems alongside a Linux installation. We 
recommend that you use the eCS BootManager rather than LILO or GRUB as the 


primary BootManager. To do this, install LILO or GRUB to the Linux partition rather 
than the MBR. 


11 


2. Booting from eComStation CD #1 


Read the license chapter in this Quickguide. By using software from CD #2 or 
starting from eComStation 2.0 CD #1, you accept the terms that are mentioned in 
this license. If you have any questions or remarks about the license, please send an 
e-mail to licensedesk @ ecomstation.com. 


Before you begin your installation of eComStation 2.0, have the registration key 
readily available on either USB stick, floppy disk, hard disk or on paper. You should 
have received the registration key by e-mail. If not, you can request it via the customer 
area of http://www.ecomstation.com/ after logging in. For the latest information and 
tips on the installation process, check http://www.ecomstation.com/support/ 


Hardware requirements 


In order to successfully install eComStation 2.0, please take into consideration the 




















following; 
Minimum Recommended 
CPU Intel Pentium 133 Any modern CPU will do, but the higher the speed 
MHz or equivalent the more responsive your system will be. Also, the 
(including Intel latest multi-core CPU systems should work. This is 
Celeron, PII, P4 and | made possible by ACPI, but eComStation can also 
AMD K6, Athlon and | work on multi-core CPU's without using the other 
Duron processors) cores. 
Memory |96 MB (absolute Install as much memory as you can in your system. 
minimum required for 4 GB is the maximum supported amount. 
installation from CD). | Applications like Firefox and Open Office need a 
lot of RAM to work. Also make certain you give a 
virtual machine (like Virtual PC) enough memory. 
Video PCI VGA video card |For more information, refer to the chapter “What 
with at least 512 KB |Hardware is Supported by eComStation 2.0” in 
memory. this Quickguide, the video card section. 
Drive 600 MB When selecting more options in the installer, more 
space drive space is required. A practical working size is 
a bootable JFS partition of 4 GB. 
Mouse Any PS/2, serial or |A PS/2 or USB mouse is recommended for best 








USB mouse 





performance. 





12 








Minimum Recommended 





CD-Drive |IDE or SCSI CD- An IDE/SATA or SCSI CD-ROM or DVD player 
ROM with boot capability and a BIOS which supports 
booting from CD-ROM. 

















Starting the Install 


The eComStation 2.0 package consists of three CD's: 
CD#1 contains the eComStation 2.0 base product and installer, 
CD#2 contains a host of applications and drivers to enhance your eComStation 
experience and 
CD# 3 contains Open Office 3.1. 


If you received only a single eComStation disk, you most likely have received a DVD 
disk which contains the content of all three CD's. When the manual instructs you to 
insert CD #2 or CD #3, insert the DVD disk. 


To start the eComStation installation, insert CD #1 in the CD drive and press reset. 


If the system boot successfully from CD #1, you will see the following Boot Source 
menu; 


Boot from hard disk 4 


Boot from eComStation CD-ROM 


Press "Esc" to cancel automatic 
hard disk boot in ? seconds. 





If the above menu does not display, there are a couple of things you can try to resolve 
the problem. 


Some computers will only check the CD-ROM drive for bootable CD during a "cold 
boot". To perform a cold boot, power off your computer and turn it on again. 


If your system does not attempt to boot from CD #1, check that your BIOS is set to 
enable booting from the CD-ROM drive and that BIOS is configured to check the CD- 


13 


ROM before the hard disk. Consult the manual of your mainboard and/or computer for 
instructions on how to access your computer's BIOS and adjust these settings. 

Another thing to try is, to press the PAUSE key as the CD-ROM drive starts to spin up. 
Sometimes the BIOS attempts to access the CD-ROM before the CD is spinning fast 
enough. PAUSE gives the CD time to spin up to speed. After the CD is spinning at full 
speed, press ENTER. 


On the Boot Source menu, the default option is to boot from hard disk. To boot the 
installation CD, cursor down to the “Boot from eComStation CD-ROM” menu item and 
press ENTER and you will see the following Boot Options menu: 


Boot with default values 4 


Boot with menu for own values 
Display online documentation 





This menu allows you to boot either using default values or the values you select. On 
most systems with IDE and or SCSI hard drives and CD-ROM's, it is sufficient to select 
the “Boot with default values” option. To select the “Boot with default values” option, 
press ENTER. 


If you need to adjust the options, cursor down to the “Boot with menu for own values” 
option and press ENTER. 


When you select the “Boot with default values” option, the installer will be loaded and 
started. The eComStation boot logo will display. The boot logo will be replaced by a 
screen with a blue background and you will be asked if you want the CD Checker to 
verify the CD content. If you do not respond to the prompt within 30 seconds, this 
check will be bypassed. This check verifies that all files on the CD-ROM can be read 
without errors. When the CD Checker completes, it will display a status report and list 
any files that can not be read correctly. If you encounter freezes when the installer is 
copying files to hard disk, we recommend you restart the installation and run the CD 
Checker. 


Some older equipment may have problems with some of the IDE driver performance 
options. If the system freezes while the CD Checker is running, we recommend that 
you restart the system and choose “Boot with menu for own values” and select a lower 
performance driver on the Boot Options: Storage page. 


14 


To select a lower performance driver from the Pre-boot menu, press PgDn (Page 
Down) until you see the Boot Options: Storage page title. If an IDE controller was 
detected, the controller option will be set to “(E)IDE/ATA(PI) Performance Mode” 
(Danis506, DaniATAPI)”. First, try selecting “(E)IDE/ATA(PI) Compatibility Mode” 
(Danis506, DaniATAPI)” and press F10 to accept the selection and retry the CD 
Checker. If this fails, try selecting the “IBM1S506, IBMATAPI” driver in 
“Performance Mode” or “Compatibility Mode”. See the section titled The Pre-boot 
Menu below for more details on how to operate the Pre-boot menu. 


If you get the message that “OS/2 cannot operate your hard disk” or if the DiskManager 
(MiniLVM) status window does not show any disk drives, we recommend that you try 
one of the other IDE drivers as described above. If you still can not boot from the CD, 
please see the next section which describes how to make boot diskettes. Boot diskettes 
are also useful if you need to supply an updated IDE driver. 


After the CD Checker finishes, a message indicating that the eComStation installer is 
being started will display. 


If you get a message that PMSHELL cannot load a DLL, you most likely do not have 
enough memory to load the installer. The installer requires a minimum of 96 MB of 
RAM. 


If you boot eComStation in a virtual machine, we strongly recommend that you read 
The Pre-boot Menu section. The Pre-boot menu contains several settings that are 
specific to booting in a virtual machine. 


2.1 The Pre-boot Menu 


In addition to the cases described in the previous section, there are other situations 
where you might want to use the Boot with own values option. For example, if you 
want to boot CD #1 from an external USB CD ROM drive, you will need to override the 
default options. 


To navigate through the Pre-boot menu pages, use the PAGE UP and PAGE DOWN 
keys. To move from field to field, press the TAB and SHIFT-TAB keys. To toggle an 
option on or off, press the space bar. To select an item from a field that supports 
multiple selections, use the up and down arrow keys. See the BOOT OPTIONS: Keys 
help page for a full description of the available keyboard navigation features. This is 
the first page that displays when the Pre-boot menu starts. 


15 


eComStation BOOT OPTIONS: Target hardware: 


eComStation BOOT OPTIONS: Target hardware 
Keys help - — Miscellaneous 


Please select the type of hardware you want to install eComStation to below: 


Target hardware: [ 


[ ] Use Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) 
[ ] Use debug version 
Optional ACPI Parameters: 
[ 


Note: If you want to install from USB CD device, please select this on 
the last page (BOOT OPTIONS: USB) of this menu. 


Please review the documentation for more information 





The first entry on this page is the Target hardware field which enables you to select 
the target platform you will install to. Tthe pre-boot menu will automatically pre-select 
this field based on what type of hardware was detected. If you want to change the pre- 
selected option, you can override it. 


The Target hardware ''Virtual Machine" option is recommend if you install in a 
virtual machine. It is automatically selected if you boot eComStation in Microsoft 
Virtual PC/Connextix Virtual PC for OS/2, Parallels workstation, Vmware or 
VirtualBox. Only certain versions of Vmware will support eComStation, so please 
consult the documentation. 


You might need CPU virtualization for this feature to work. VirtualBox is a virtual 
machine you can download free of charge from www.virtualbox.org. For VirtualBox to 
load eComStation, it is required to have CPU virtualization. CPU virtualization is 
called AMD-V or Intel VT-x. Please consult your computer/BIOS manual to see if your 
system supports this. 


Make certain that CPU virtualization is turned on in your BIOS. When you turn it on, 
fully power off your computer and turn it back on again. eComStation may have hangs 
or kernel TRAPS or it will hang without CPU virtualization. We recommend that you 
use VirtualBox version 3.2.0. or later, as recently there have been fixes to address 
stability issues with eComStation/OS2. 


16 


If the pre-boot has automatically set your Target hardware to Virtual machine, do 
not modify any of the settings on the other pages in the Pre-boot menu. 


For virtual machines, the optimal selections have already been set. For example, 
altering the hard disk drive controller, enabling USB, ACPI or changing the video driver 
can result in stability issues. 


Target hardware "Legacy hardware": 


It can be difficult to tell if a computer supports ACPI based on the documentation that 
comes with your computer, but typically all systems with a Pentium II CPU or older or 
systems with a legacy ISA slot(s) will not support ACPI. 


In the event ACPI support on your system is not detected, it will switch on the Legacy 
mode (exceptions for some modern industrial mainboards). Selecting Legacy mode is 
recommend for certain older models of ThinkPads; but selecting this mode on modern 
hardware might result in hangs during boot from CD #1. 


Target hardware "Modern hardware, safe mode": 


This option is pre-selected when ACPI support is detected. This mode is optimal for 
modern hardware and is automatically selected when ACPI is detected. It will not load 
the ACPI driver at startup. This mode will prevent eComStation from loading certain 
drivers that can hang on a modern system. 


Target hardware ''Modern hardware, ACPI mode": 


This is the exact same mode as Modern hardware, safe mode but with ACPI loaded. 
The statement that loads ACPI in your config.sys is the line PSD=ACPI.PSD. This 
mode must be selected manually. If you do not select it here, you can install ACPI 
either by selecting it when booted from CD #1 in the installer or after eComStation is 
installed with the help of the “ACPI Wizard”. 


If you have a system with an AMD mainboard chip set (not an AMD CPU), selecting 
ACPI might hang your system at boot. Use Modern hardware, safe mode on this 
type of systems. For more information on ACPI, please read the chapter in this 
Quickguide: “What hardware is supported by eComStation 2.0” 


If you activate the option Modern hardware, ACPI mode, the next menu option in 
pre-boot with the title Target hardware is pre-selected at Use Advanced 


Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI). You can select Use debug version and 


17 


Optional ACPI parameters. These two options are used only if you are asked to 
debug problems with ACPI. For more information on ACPI, please read the chapter in 
this Quickguide: “What Hardware is Supported by eComStation 2.0” 


eComStation BOOT OPTIONS: Miscellaneous 


eComStation BOOT OPTIONS: Miscellaneous 
Target hardware - - Storage 


Country: [ 
Keyboard layout: [ 
Code pages: [ 


Start after boot: [ 
Reserve the following drive letter: 


eComStation CD-ROM located in drive: 
Memory boot drive letter: 


Display driver to use during installation (see readme) 


Use Amouse driver 

Skip harddisk integrity check 

Edit CONFIG.SYS 

Pause boot process when error occurs 
Display additional driver messages 

Do not display bootlogo 

Reserve the hardware resources listed below: 





This screen offers a mixture of various options. In the first block, select the locale 
information for the Operating System. The country option sets the default 
country/region dependent information which can be refined in detail after the 
installation through the Locale object. 

Since the keyboard layout you use may be different from the country you are located in 
or be based upon the language version of the Operating System you use, the layout is 
selectable as well. With the code page option, you may determine the primary 
character encoding eComStation uses and an alternate code page that you can toggle 
between after the Operating System has been started. 


The next option selects what program to start after booting from the installation CD- 
ROM or floppy diskettes. The graphical installation program can be started or a 
command line interface for maintenance tasks or problem determination. 


Reserving a drive letter allows to control of the assignment of the drive letters for your 
CD/DVD drives. The Operating System will assign drive letters to all drives that are 
partitioned media, such as hard disks or certain removable drives. The letter of the last 
one of these media is the first valid letter for a working drive letter reservation. The 


18 


CD/DVD drives will be assigned the next letters after the reserved one in the order the 
drives are detected by your PC. 


Changing the drive letter to be reserved automatically adjusts the value of the next 
option where you can select the drive the eComStation installation CD-ROM has been 
inserted. If the CD-ROM is not located in the first CD/DVD drive, you must change 
this letter to match the appropriate drive. Usually, this would be the second drive, so 
move the drive letter one further by pressing either the Up arrow key or hitting the letter 
key ('T' for the example above). The range of the values is limited by the selected 
reserved drive letter and the fixed letter of the memory boot drive ('Z’). 


If you do not know the letters assigned to your drives, leave the menu after the selection 
of your storage controllers in the next screen by hitting the ALT key together with the 
F1 key. In the following screen, hit the F2 key and run the program "ecsdrinf" on the 
command line. It will give you an overview of the drive letters, labels, and file systems. 
The drive letter next to the label "ECS_CDRUN" is the one of the drive where the 
eComStation installation CD-ROM has been inserted. 


The drive letter of the memory boot drive should only be changed if you already have a 
drive/logical volume that has the default of 'Z' assigned. If you select a drive letter 
identical to the one of the CD/DVD drive that has the eComStation CD-ROM inserted, 
a warning message is displayed and you can not leave the menu until you select a 
different drive letter. 


The option “Display driver to use during installation (see readme)” - we recommend 
that you do not modify this. In most cases, the Pre-boot menu makes the proper 
selection for you. You can choose GRADD, VGA and the SNAP driver and Panorama 
video driver. If you are installing in a virtual machine, do not modify the video setting. 
The video driver selected in this menu will also be used for installation of eComStation. 
For more information on video drivers, please read the chapter in this Quickguide: 
“What hardware is supported by eComStation 2.0”. 


The following seven options of eComStation Boot Menu Miscellaneous can be useful 
for problem determination and solving startup issues. 


1) Use Amouse driver: This option is recommended for systems with a USB mouse 
and is also pre-selected if your system is detected as a modern machine. We 
recommend that you do not select Amouse when installing eComStation in a virtual 
machine. When this option is selected in the Pre-boot menu, it will be installed 
automatically by the installer. 


19 


2) Skip hard disk integrity check: If this option is checked, the hard disk integrity 
check will be skipped during the pre-boot process. Generally, we recommend that you 
do not disable this option. 


3) Edit Config.sys: This option allows you to modify the config.sys before the installer 
is loaded. You can use F7 to search for text in config.sys. This is a powerful option 
and should only be used to resolve problems. Making modifications to config.sys 
without sufficient knowledge can result in failure to boot the installation CD or the 
installation itself, failing. 


4) Pause boot process when error occurs: If this option is selected and the system 
detects an error when loading the installer, it will ask you if you want to continue. 
Write down the error message and pass it along to support. This option suppresses the 
automatic boot that some errors will automatically initiate. If you request that the 
loading of the installer continue, it is possible that the load will fail completely. 


5) Display additional driver messages: Select this option to activate verbose mode 
which is supported by some drivers. When using this option, we recommend that you 
use ALT-F4 to leave the Pre-boot menu rather than pressing F10. When verbose 
mode is selected, the drivers may generate a lot of output and ALT-F4 loads the drivers 
one at a time so that you can read the messages. 


6) Do not display bootlogo: Select this option if you opened a support ticket and 
support requested that you check the Use debug version ACPI option. Suppressing the 
debug logo will make the messages output by the ACPI driver visible on the screen. 


This option is also useful if your system seems to hang at the boot logo. For example, 
some SiS graphics are known to hang when the bootlogo is loaded. Suppressing the 
bootlogo avoids the hang. Please note: if this option resolves the hang that occurs 
when booting from CD #1, you need to modify your installation manually after the 
installer has finished copying files from CD #1 to your hard disk. To do this, select 
your install options and let the installer start copying files to your hard disk. Then 
check the Start management console on completion checkbox. When the file copy 
completes, use the management console menu to open a command line session and 
delete the “‘os2logo” file from the root directory of your boot drive. 


7) Reserve the hardware resources listed below: Use this option to prevent resources 
from being allocated by the wrong device driver. This should happen rarely and 
typically occurs only for older ISA hardware or PCMCIA (PC Card) adapters. To 
reserve resource, press the SPACE-BAR to enable the option and then enter the 
resource reservations in the field that follows. 


20 


Some typical resource reservations are: 


- /1O:x,y or /P:x,y 
Reserves I/O ports, where 'x' is the base port number in hexadecimal and 'y' is 
the length/number of ports in hexadecimal. The 
'x' and 'y' values are separated by commas. Example: /10:340,4 


- MEM:xxxx,y 
Reserves memory, where 'xxxx' is the base memory address in hexadecimal and 
'y' is the length in hexadecimal of the address 
range. The 'xxxx' and 'y' values are separated by commas. The memory address 
is a paragraph address that is xxxx represents 
the paragraph address address xxxx:0 which is the same as the linear address 
xxxxQ. The addresses that can be reserved are 
between C000:0 and DFFF:. Example: /MEM:CA00,1000. 


- DMA:x 
Reserves a DMA channel, where 'x' is the channel number in decimal. Example: 
IDMA:2 


- IRQ:x 
Reserves an interrupt line, where 'x' is the interrupt line in decimal. Example: 
/RQ:10 


- [EXC 

- MUL 

- SHA 
Modifies the reservations defined by /IO /MEM /DMA /IRQ. The options are 
EXClusive, MULtiplexed or SHAred. The modifier must immediately follow 
the resource to which it applies. The modifiers are mutually exclusive. Only one 
can be specified for a given resource. If a modifier is not specified, the default is 
EXClusive. 


21 


eComStation Boot Options: Storage 


eComStation BOOT OPTIONS: 
Miscellaneous - 


1. Controller: 
Parameters: 


. Controller: 
Parameters: 


. Controller: 
Parameters: 


Name of other driver from diskette without extension: [ 


[ ] Use generic INT 13h driver instead of adapter device drivers CIBMINT13) 


Optical drives: [ ] 





The Storage menu allows you to configure the drivers to be loaded to match the host 
adapters installed in your PC. In most cases, the installed adapters will be detected 
automatically. You may select up to three different host adapter drivers. These drivers 
will be loaded in the order listed on the menu. If you have multiple CD-ROM adapters, 
the driver for the host adapter that has the CD/DVD drive which contains the 
eComStation installation CD-ROM must be loaded first. Selecting a driver more than 
once is allowed, but is not useful. Only the first instance will be loaded. 


If a ATA(PD/(E)IDE host adapter is detected, the "Extended ATA(PI)/(E)IDE 
(DaniS506, Dani ATAPI)" driver will be preselected as the first controller by default. If 
SCSI host adapters were detected, they will be selected as the second and third 
controllers depending upon the number detected. 


The ATA(PD/(E)IDE drivers are not compatible with any of the software RAID setups 
offered for some ATA/IDE RAID controllers such as HPT, Promise FastTrack, AMI; 
however, the chip sets are supported in non-RAID mode. Verify that the RAID features 
are disabled in the BIOS setup for these controllers. 


If the installer does not start correctly or the installation fails, try switching the 
DaniS506 driver to Compatibility mode. If this fails, try switching to the IBM1S506 
driver (i. e., “(E)IDE/ATA(PI) Compatibility mode (IBM1S506, IBMATAPI)”. 


22 


ServeRaid Adapters 


If you are installing eComStation 2.0 to an IBM server with a ServeRaid adapter which 
uses the IPSRAID.ADD driver, the eComStation DiskManager may not display any of 
the disks connected to your RAID array. This seems to be a bug in the IBM ServeRaid 
driver. This is a timing issue. If this occurs, change the first controller instance from 
DANIS506 to IBM1S506. 


Tekram Adapters 
Host adapters that use the following drivers need special attention: 


Tekram DC-310/U, DC-390F/U/U2B/U2W/W (TMSCSIW) 
Tekram DC-310/U, DC-390F/U/U2B/U2W/W (see note, below) 


These adapters require that you supply the driver TMSCSIW.ADD from diskette since 
the company did not allow distribution of this driver with eComStation. Please refer to 
the end of this appendix for directions on how to supply the driver on diskette. The 
driver archive can be downloaded from: 


ftp://ftp.tekram.com/SCSI/390X/DC390EB W.zip 


If you have trouble booting with this driver, try selecting "Symbios/LSI F-U2W 
81x/825/860/87x/885/895 chips (SYM8XX)" instead. For DC-390U3D/U3W adapters, 
select "Symbios/LSI U2W/U160 895A/896/1000/1010 chips (SYM_HI)". 


Tekram DC-305/315/395 (TRM3X5) 
Tekram DC-305E/I, DC-315U, DC-395F/U/UW 


These adapters are NOT recommended for eComStation. If you choose to use this 
adapter, you need to supply the driver TRM3X5.ADD from diskette since the company 


did not allow distribution of their driver with eComStation. Please refer to the end of 
this appendix on how to supply the driver. The driver archive can be downloaded from: 


ftp://ftp.tekram.com/SCSI/3X5/DC3X5U.zip 


Using Other Adapters 


To select an adapter that is not listed in the controller drop down list, select the entry 
that reads; 


23 


Use other driver from diskette (enter name below) 
When you select this option, a red arrow => will appear to the left of the field labeled 
Name of other driver from diskette (without extension): 


Enter the name of the driver without the extension (.ADD), for example "AIC7770". 
You will not be able to leave the Pre-boot menu until you have either entered the driver 
name or until you have selected a different option from the controller drop down list. 
Please refer to the end of this appendix on how to supply a driver on diskette. 


Below each controller selection field, there is a parameters field where driver-specific 
options can be entered. Most drivers will not require any special options to boot 
correctly. You can force the driver into verbose mode by typing /V into the parameters 
field and the driver will display additional messages when it is loading. 


If none of the other host adapter selections work properly or your host adapter is not 
supported, you can try selecting the generic INT 13h driver. Selecting this driver forces 
the values of the three controller selection fields to None since this option is mutually 
exclusive with any other controller selection. Certain restrictions apply and the usage of 
this driver is not recommended. On most systems, this driver will either fail to work or 
the system will function extremely slowly. 


Optical Drives 


If you experience problems starting the installer or the installer appears to have 
problems accessing the CD/DVD drive, try selecting the “Extended CD-ROM/CD- 
RW/DVD Device Manager” from the optical drives selection list. 

For older hardware, try selecting the “Standard CD-ROM Device Manager”. This 
Device Manager does not support DVD drives. 


24 


eComStation BOOT OPTIONS: USB 


eComStation BOOT O 
Storage - - Keys help 


Support [0]? USB Universal Host Controllers (UHCI: Intel, VIA) 
Support [0]? USB Open Host Controllers (OHCI: ALi, AMD, OPTi, SiS) 
Support [0]? USB Enhanced Host Controllers (EHCI: Intel, NEC) 
[ ] Support USB mice/trackballs 
[ ] Support USB keyboards 
[ ] Support USB mass storage devices: 

[1]? floppy disk drives attached 

[0]® CD-ROM/-R(W) drives attached 


[ ] Install from USB CD device 
[8] Removable drives attached (USB stick, USB harddisks etc.) 





If the Pre-boot menu detects USB host controllers, it will preselect up to 8 controllers 
for each detected controller type as well as enabling support for USB keyboards and 
pointing devices. To change the preselected counts, use the Up and Down keys to cycle 
the count between 0 to 8 or type in a number. Note that you are selecting controllers, 
not ports. 


To successfully run USB devices, the USB controllers must have hardware resources 
assigned (i. e., IRQ, port, etc.). Please consult the mainboard manual for any special 
BIOS settings that might be required for the USB controllers. 


The next three options control USB devices that might be needed for installation 
(pointing devices, a keyboard or external storage devices). 


Press the Space bar to activate/deactivate support for each of these device types. You 
must select at least one USB host controller before you will be able to activate any of 
these device types. 


If at least one USB host controller is detected, "Support USB mass storage devices" will 
be pre-selected. 


Note: to install eComStation from a USB CD-ROM drive, set the count of CD- 
ROM/-R(W) drivers attached to 1 and check the Install from USB CD device option. 


If you are installing eComStation 2.0 under a virtual machine, we recommend that you 


25 


do not activate USB support. Activating USB support can lead to instability. 
Making a Boot Diskette/Driver Update Diskette 


If your system is not able to boot from CD #1 and you have a diskette drive, try creating 
boot diskettes from CD#1. This is especially useful for legacy systems. The drivers on 
these diskettes can not be updated. 


You can also boot from CD-ROM and supply additional drivers on diskette. The 
section entitled “Booting from eComStation CD #1” describes how to use an additional 
driver diskette. 


To create the diskettes, run makedisk.bat from a DOS/Windows based machine on 
which you have CD-ROM access. Alternatively, run makedisk.cmd on an OS/2 based 
machine that provides CD-ROM access. Both makedisk.cmd and makedisk.cmd can be 
found on CD #1. 


To create boot diskettes, press 1 to select the Create 4 installation diskettes with 
menu option. 


To create an additional driver diskette, press 2 to select the Create 1 prepared diskette 
to update the memory disk with your files option. 


26 


3. Continuing the Installation Process 


The installer runs in three phases. In phase #1, you will select the items to be to 
installed, such as network configuration, audio driver, etc. In this phase the base 
operating system is installed onto hard disk. Phase #2 will boot from hard disk and 
continues to install selected components to the system. Finally phase #3 is booting to a 
complete eComStation 2.0 desktop and allows you to fine tune the system by using the 
Post Installation Tasks wizard. 


If you need additional assistance while the installer is running, use the online help. 
To view the online help, press the help button in the right hand corner of any installer 
screen. 


To access the online help after eComStation is installed, put eComStation 2.0 CD #1 in 
your CD-ROM drive and click on the folder Local system on your Desktop, select the 
folder Drives and click on the drive letter of CD ROM. Finally, go to the folder 
\ECS\INSTALL and double click on GUIDPROC.HLP. 


The online help Contains the following chapters; 


Chapter 1. Installation 

Describes how to install eComStation 2.0 using either the Easy or Advanced 
installation method. Explains how to handle a migration from a previous 
OS/2/eComStation version. 


Chapter 2. What's Next? 
Talks about adding support for several hardware items and will touch briefly on the 
installation of additional applications. 


Chapter 3. Getting Connected 
Explains briefly how to get connected to the Internet and your Local Network. Also 
contains tips on networking within a Windows/Linux Environment. 


Chapter 4. Getting Involved 
Describes some ways you can help to support the development and evolution of 
eComStation. 


Chapter 5. LVM 
Describes in detail the usage of the LVM programs in eComStation. 


27 


4. What Hardware is Supported by eComStation 2.0 


4.1 ACPI Support 


ACPI support is a new component in eComStation 2.0. Before ACPI was introduced in 
computer hardware, a lot of the hardware management (like IRQ assignment and power 
management) was done by the BIOS. With ACPI, a large part of these tasks is taken 
over by the Operating System. ACPI support is an extension of the Operating System 
kernel at the deepest level possible, in the form of a so called PSD. 


When ACPI is enabled on eComStation, the following line is inserted in your 
config.sys: PSD=ACPI.PSD 


The position of this line in the config.sys does not matter as eComStation will load this 
module as the first “driver” from config.sys. The old APM.SYS driver can not be used 
in conjunction with ACPI. It is replaced with the line BASEDEV=APM.ADD in your 
config.sys. The position of this driver in the config.sys is not important. 


The installation of ACPI can be enabled by selecting ACPI in the Pre-boot menu 
(please read chapter 2 of this manual for more details). It is also possible to select it 
during installation of the Operating System when booted from CD #1 in the hardware 
page of the installer. A final option to install ACPI is the “ACPI Wizard” after the 
system is installed. Go to the folder “Local system” >” Install Remove” and double click 
on the ACPI Wizard icon. 


Note: To activate SMP (multiprocessor / multicore) support you need to run the ACPI 
wizard and modify the parameters. By default SMP is not enabled. 


Note: not all computers require ACPI support. 


There are three reasons to install ACPI. The first reason to install ACPI is because of 
multi CPU support (or SMP support). eComStation has an extremely good SMP support 
in its kernel. Large parts of the eComStation Operating System are “threaded”. 
Especially with a SMP system the kernel can have an application be served by 2 or 
more CPU's by distributing these “threads”, increasing the speed of your computer. 


The second reason to install ACPI is to support APIC mode. Computers used to have 
IRQ support up to IRQ 15. This mode of operating is called “PIC” mode. More and 
more modern systems will only run reliably if the IRQ management is set to “APIC” 
mode. This is made possible by ACPI.PSD, as well. With some notebooks, the base 


28 


functionality of the computer works without ACPI so you can start your OS, but 
functionality like WiFi and sound might not work without ACPI being installed and 
running in “APIC” mode. In some cases ACPI also has to be loaded to initialize 
hardware before a device driver uses the device. 


The third reason to install ACPI is that it makes it possible to use suspend and resume, 
because with most modern laptops, the classic APM support is no longer present in the 
BIOS. The success rate of this may depend on the hardware you have. Note: The first 
time you test suspend and resume, we recommend that you close all open documents 
etc. before you test to see if your system works. 


If suspend/resume does not work: 

You can try the following. Open your config.sys file and look for the line 
DEVICE=X:\ECS\S YSTEM\AMOUSE\AMOUSE.SYS SMP. 

Replace this line with the following 
DEVICE=X:\0S2\BOOT\MOUSEAPM.SYS. 


If your screen remains black at resume, you can try appending the /VBE switch option 
to the PSD=ACPI.PSD line in your config.sys. This will configure the VBE extensions. 


To modify the settings for suspend, go to the folder “Local System” > “System setup” 
and click on the ACPI setup icon. Generally, it is best to set the “ sleep state” to S3 and 
keep the “Save video for suspend” set to “0”. 


Usually, installing ACPI will not cause any system issues. What can cause problems is 
when the /SMP mode and/or the /APIC switches are added to the config.sys. For more 
information on the ACPI switches, please consult the document PSD_EN.INF which 
can be found in the \ECS\ACPI\DOC\ directory of your boot drive. It offers detailed 
information on ACPI and the switches available for the various ACPI drivers and 
utilities. 


Q: I installed ACPI or I allowed the ACPI wizard to add the suggested switches 
ISMP /APIC to the PSD line. The config.sys line now reads PSD=ACPI.PSD /SMP 
/APIC and my system does not start. What should I do? 


A: Not all systems support ACPI equally well. On some systems, when you install 
ACPI and enable the /SMP /APIC support, you might see pauses of up to 40 seconds for 


29 


your machine to start up and load the drivers. This can happen especially with USB 
drivers and the UNIAUD audio driver, so wait for your system to boot. 


Q: I installed ACPI and I see my system loading and then the screen remains black 
when all device drivers seem to be loaded. I see no eComStation Desktop. 


A: Restart your system with the key combination Ctrl-Alt-Delete and when you see the 
little white “eCS” blob in the left hand corner of the screen, press the key combination 
ALT-F4. This will allow you to select which device drivers and daemons to load. 
Continue pressing the space bar until you see the line, X:\OS2\ACPIDAEMON.EXE. 
Skip this line. If your system starts successfully now, remove the line 
RUN=X:\0S2\ACPIDAEMON.EXE from your config.sys. Then add a reference to the 
acpidaemon.exe to your eComStation startup folder. 


Q: I have enabled SMP support and my system seems to hang and in the part of the boot 
process where text is displayed on the screen, no graphics are displayed. How can I fix 
this? 


A: From the line PSD=ACPI.PSD /SMP /APIC in your config.sys, remove the 
option /APIC. Normally, this is recommended, but some device drivers don't support 
the /APIC mode from ACPI. 


Q: I installed ACPI and I don't see COM.SYS loading the config.sys. Instead, I see 
PSCOM.SYS. What is PSCOM.SYS? 


A: The PSCOM.SYS driver is a serial port driver that supports IRQ's above 15. This 
driver is is needed when ACPI is running in APIC and the serial port is assigned to an 
IRQ above 15. 


Q: I started up my system the first time with ACPI installed and the eCenter CPU graph 
reports that I have very high CPU consumption. What is going on? 


A: In some rare cases the “Beer battery widget” that is installed in the eCenter on laptop 
systems can make the system slow. Click on the battery icon with the right mouse 


button and choose “Delete widget’. 


Q: DOS and Win/OS2 sessions do not start since I added the /SMP /APIC switches to 
the PSD=ACPI.PSD line in my config.sys file. Why is this happening? 


A: On some systems, if you start a DOS or WIN/OS2 session when you booted eCS, it 
can take up to 30 seconds to start the first DOS or WIN/OS2 session. You can try to 


30 


remove the /APIC option from the PSD=ACPI.PSD line in your config.sys. If this does 
not help, you may need to install ACPI version 3.14. This is often true if you have a 
Nvidia mainboard chip set. To do this, insert eComStation CD #1 in your CD ROM 
drive and then open the folder “Local System” >” Drives” and select your CD ROM 
drive. Go to the directory \CID\SERVER\ECSPKG and click on the package 
ACPI314.WPI. The WarpIN installer will warn that you are going to install older 
versions of the ACPI drivers. Ignore this warning and allow WarpIN to install the 
driver. 


Q: I have an AMD mainboard chip set and it hangs when I load ACPI. What can I do? 
A: Some AMD chip sets do not work with ACPI because of the way eComStation 
boots. You need to install your system in the default install mode that CD #1 offers 
“Modern hardware- Safe mode”. For more details, please read Chapter 2 of the 
Quickguide about the Pre-boot menu. (Please note ACPI does not effect AMD CPU's). 


Q: My machine seems to get very warm. What can I do? 


A: This can be caused by ACPI especially when the SMP mode is activated. 
For Intel CPU's, download the following tool to throttle the speed of your CPU: 
Intel: http://hobbes.nmsu.edu/download/pub/os2/util/system/cpuspeed1.4.zip 
For AMD CPU's there is currently no solution. 


Q: My system hangs at startup when I added the switches /SMP /APIC. When loading 
the USB host controller drivers or USB equipment does not work. 


A: Try adding the /CD option to the ACPI.PSD line in your config.sys. 
Q: My system is slow with ACPI in SMP mode. What is the cause? 


A: On some systems, hyperthreading does not work properly with ACPI. 
Turn this feature off in your system's BIOS. 


Q: I selected “shutdown” and my system does not switch off? What can I do? 
A: Your system might not properly support power off via ACPI. Click with the right 
mouse button on your eComStation Desktop in a spot where there are no icons, then 


click on properties in the menu. In the new menu that pops up, select eShutdown. and 
disable the Power off option. 


31 


Q: I installed the latest build of XWorkplace and my system is having problems with 
powering off with ACPI, but eWorkplace worked. 


A: As of May 2010, the time of the eComStation 2.0 release, a version of XWorkplace 
with the required fixes had not yet been released. 


4.2 What Audio Cards/Chip Sets are Supported? 


eComStation 2.0 comes with drivers for a wide variety of supported audio chip sets. 
ISA chip sets are not detected. You need to select ISA chip sets manually from the 
driver list during installation. Most PCI/AC97/HDA chip sets integrated on mainboards 
should be detected and supported by UNIAUD. If an audio driver is not installed, go to 
the folder “Local System” “Install/ remove” and click on “Multimedia Application 
Install”. Choose “Add a Multimedia Feature” >” Install from the menu and select the 
appropriate driver from the list of drivers included on the eComStation 2.0 CD”. 


Q: My system starts up and I have a repeating startup sound or other system sound. 
What is going on? 


A: This happens with the UNIAUD driver on some systems that have HDA audio chip 
sets. In this case, go to the folder “Local System” +” System Setup” and then choose 
sound and disable the system sounds. An updated UNIAUD driver will be available at a 
later date. Please check the following web page for details: 


http://www.ecomstation.com/fag/559 


Q: I am having trouble with the UNIAUD audio driver. Where can I get support? 


A: Go to http://svn.netlabs.org/uniaud for more information. Please note: eComStation 
2.0 ships with a build of the UNIAUD drivers UNIAUD16.SYS and UNIAUD32.SYS 
from May 2010. The website still needs to be updated to reflect these changes, so do 
not back level your UNIAUD driver. 


Q: I have the UNIAUD audio driver installed, but I can almost hear no sound. What is 
wrong? 


A: Some systems have issues with the mixer settings. Go to the folder "Programs" and 
then "Multimedia." Double click on the "UNIAUD Mixer" and move the sliders for 
PCM Playback to adjust the volume. 


Q: I have installed an audio driver and it does not work properly. How do I uninstall it? 


32 


A: Start minstall as is described at the top of this section. Choose “Uninstall an 
Installed Feature” from the main menu. This will remove the audio driver you selected 
to uninstall. If you still are having problems, you can also select from the “Reinitialize 
your Multimedia installation”. This will reset your multimedia sub-system to the state it 
was when there was no audio driver installed. This will resolve problems that can occur 
if the configuration files get corrupted. After resetting, try to reinstall your driver via 
minstall and see if this fixes the problem. 


Q: I have downloaded an updated version of the UNIAUD driver (UNIAUD16.SYS and 
UNIAUD32.SYS). What do I do with it? There is no information or files with the 
package that explain how to install the audio driver. 


A: If you already have UNIAUD installed on your system, all you need to do is copy 
UNIAUDI6.SYS and UNIAUD32.SYS to the \MMOS2 directory on the boot drive and 
reboot. We recommend that you backup the old UNIAUD drivers before overwriting 
them. 


Q: I have an SB live card in my system and the driver does not load. What do I do? 


A: If you have more then 2 GB of memory in your system, switch over to UNIAUD. 
The Soundblaster Live driver does not work with more than 2 GB of RAM. Start 
minstall as is described at the top of this section and override the selected SB live driver 
and select the UNIAUD driver. 


4.3 What Video Cards are Supported by eComStation? 
eComStation 2.0 supports four different types of video drivers. 


The first is the SNAP video driver. This driver has support for hardware acceleration 
which provides a high level of video performance. For a list of supported video chip 
sets, look on eCS 2.0 CD #1 in the file: \CID\SERVER\SNAP\readme.txt. This driver 
will not work with suspend/resume of ACPI. You will need to use the Panorama video 
drivers for suspend/resume to work. 


In most cases, the Panorama video driver is installed by eComStation 2.0. This is a 
driver that supports just about any video chip set. This is because it is a VESA driver 
and the VESA interface on video cards is a generic or industry standard. The Panorama 
driver does have a few limitations: 


33 


* The Panorama driver does not use video chip set specific features. For example, 
some laptops have “wide screen” adapters, but these resolutions are not 
supported by the Panorama driver. For some video chip sets, there are 
Panorama wide screen enablers. For more information, see: 


http://en.ecomstation.ru/projects/panorama/?action=down 


- If you experience performance issues with the Panorama video driver on your 
system, please check the FAQ item for this at: 


http://www.ecomstation.com/fag/555 


* With the Panorama driver, you cannot set the refresh rate for your screen. The 
BIOS of the video card detects the capabilities of the screen and uses the best 
possible settings. 


The GRADD video driver is similar to the Panorama driver, but it does not provide the 
level of acceleration that the Panorama driver offers. The GRADD driver does not work 
as well with some video cards as the Panorama driver does. On some video chip sets, 
the GRADD driver will hang the system or crash it. 


The VGA video driver is a basic driver that is normally not needed. It only supports a 
resolution of 640 x 480 and 16 colors. 


If you want to change the driver after installation, open the folder “Local System” + 
“Install/Remove” and start the program “Video driver wizard”. You can choose to 
install SNAP, Panorama, GRADD or the VGA driver. 


Recovering from an Incorrectly Set Screen Resolution 


This is a new feature in eComStation 2.0. If you accidentally set the screen resolution 
too high and your screen no longer displays a video image, you need to reset to standard 
VGA and then reinstall your video driver. If you do not see the eComStation desktop 
after rebooting with the modified resolution, press Ctrl-Alt-Delete. When you see the 
little white eCS blob in the left hand corner of your screen, press ALT-F1. This should 
display the recovery menu. From the recovery menu, select option “D Reset GRADD 
based video driver to 800 x 600 64K colors.” 


Q: When booting from eComStation CD #1, I get a hang or TRAP in SDDHELP.SYS. 
What do I do? 


A: Select the Panorama driver in the Pre-boot menu. 


34 


4.4 Disk Storage Controllers 


For a list of supported SATA/PATA controllers, please check the file 
\ECS\DOC\DANISS06\CHIPLIST.TXT on an installed system. On some systems, the 
default settings of the AHCI controller are not supported and you need to switch the 
controller to compatibility mode in the BIOS. Beware when switching to compatibility 
mode. Consult your BIOS documentation. In some cases, compatibility mode will 
result in Windows failing to start. 


An AHCI driver is under development, but not yet ready for public release. For details 
please visit http://www.ecomstation.com/faq/557 (AHCI is the follow up of the SATA 
disk controller standard). 


Q: I tried to install eComStation on a bootable JFS volume with a HP / Compaq DL- 
360 server using CPQARRAY.ADD RAID driver or the LSI 320 driver. The system 
does not start or it crashes. 


A: The LSI 320 driver does not support bootable JFS. You must install to an HPFS file 
system. The CPQARRAY.ADD driver has no problem accessing JFS data volumes. 


Q: I have an Adaptec SCSI Adapter and a SCSI CD-ROM and I could not get it to boot 
the eComStation CD #1. What should I do? 


A: Check the following settings: 

In the Adaptec BIOS, set disconnect to "NO" for the CD-ROM device. Some CD- 
ROM's do not work properly in sync mode. Try turning off initiate sync negotiation in 
the BIOS. 


Q: My computer is beeping and the hard disk is spinning up and down all the time. 
What is going on? 


A: Most likely, you have a problem with reading from the hard disk. If eCS detects 
problems with reading from hard disk, it tries to recover by resetting the disk controller. 


A common reason for read problems is that a computer may not be properly grounded. 
Please check the electrical grounding of your PC or hard drive. 


4.5 What network Card Chip Sets are Supported? 


For an extensive list, please visit http://www.ecomstation.com/fag/558 





35 


Q: Why are some chip sets that were supported by the Genmac 2.20 driver not 
supported by eComStation 2.0? For example, my Atheros wireless chip is not 
supported. 


A: Some drivers had to be removed due to licensing issues. To download the Genmac 
driver for your missing chip set, visit: http://genmac.netlabs.org/ 


4.6 What CPU/Mainboard Chip Sets are Supported? 


Most mainboard chip sets are supported by eComStation. For details, read the section 
on ACPI earlier in this chapter. We generally recommend Intel-based motherboards 
because they tend to be the most compatible. The CPU type or brand does not really 
matter, as long as it supports the x86 architecture. You can purchase a multi-core CPU 
and run eComStation in single core mode if the ACPI driver does not support the 
motherboard in SMP mode. 


4.7 USB / USB Peripherals Support 


When you boot from eComStation CD #1, the correct number of USB 1.1/2.0 
controllers is usually automatically detected and the correct drivers are installed. 
Support for USB keyboards, mice and USB hubs should be not be a problem as most of 
this equipment conforms to industry standards. 


Many USB scanners are supported with the TAME package. If you did not select the 
TAME package during installation of eComStation CD #1, you can install it by starting 
TAME.EXE from the directory COMMON\CID\SERVER\ECSPKG\ on CD #1. 


On some systems, the system load time will be longer because the USB drivers take a 
long time to initialize. This can be up to 30 seconds or longer. This sometimes can 
occur if ACPI is enabled in /APIC mode. See the ACPI section in this chapter for more 
details. 


If you have an USB mass storage device that does not have a drive letter assigned in 
eComStation, it may be because the existing device formatting does not conform 100% 
with the USBMSD standard. If the USB key/hard disk contains no data you wish to 
keep, we recommend that you reformat the device with the eComStation “Disk utility” 
tool. To access this tool, boot from eComStation CD #1 and press CTRL-C to ignore 
any warnings from the DiskChecker. When the graphical installer is loaded, insert your 
USB device. Select the Maintenance console from Easy/Advanced/Maintenance 
console radio buttons. When the menu bar displays, select the Disk and select “Disk 


36 


utility” from the sub-menu. Select the device you want to erase and respond Yes twice 
to erase the device. Confirm the erase only if you are sure you have selected the 
correct device. 


Your system will then reboot. Once back in eComStation, use MiniLVM to partition 
the USB key or hard disk. You can find MiniLVM in your System setup folder. It is 
best to format the USB key under any version of Windows as a FAT 32 device, so that 
you can use the key under Windows, eComStation and Linux. This procedure is needed 
especially if your USB disk is bigger than 512 GB and you want to use it under 
eComStation. Most disks are pre-partitioned for Windows. The same limits apply as 
described in chapter 1, which provides instructions on how to deal with hard disks 
bigger than 512 GB. 


Q: Which USB network hardware is supported in eComStation? 


A: eComStation has support for USB Ethernet adapters which are based on the 
Kawasaki KLSKUSB101 chip set. You can install this driver via the Adapters and 
Protocols tool (MPTS) which you can find in the System Setup > Network folder. 


The following USB Ethernet network cards have been tested: 
3COM USB Network Interface 

D-Link Corp. USB Ethernet Adapter (DSB-650) 

ADS Technologies Inc. USB Ethernet Adapter (USB-10BT) 


Note: as of May 2010, USB 3.0 host controllers are not supported by eComStation. 
Development of a USB 3.0 host controller driver is planned. 


4.8 Which printers are supported by eComStation 2.0? 


Open the folder “Local System” > “Printers” and click on “Install Printer”. In the 
dialog “Create new printer”, there is an option “Install new printer driver”. Select it 
list of the supported printers. 


Printer drivers shipped with eCS 


Printers need two drivers to function. One driver sends the stream file to the printer and 
the other driver is called a “port driver’. If you want to install a printer that uses SLPR 
printing (a TCP/IP protocol), install a “local printer” and select your printer from the 
list. Click the right mouse button on “LPT 1” and then, click on “Install”. You will be 
able to select SLPR or the SMB (for access to Samba printer). 


37 


Importing a PPD file 


If your printer is not supported by the drivers shipped with eComStation 2.0, check the 
manual of your printer or the website of your printer manufacture to see if the printer 
supports the Postscript printer language. If it does, look for the PPD file for your 
printer. 


A PPD file is a text file that describes the features of your printer and it can normally be 
found on the driver disk or the website of your computer vendor. If you cannot find the 
PPD file, search via your favorite search engine. For example, check the website: 
http://www.openprinting.org/download/PPD/. When you have a PPD, you can import 
the file by opening the folder “Local System” + “Printers” and start the program 
“Add printer drivers”. 


CUPS Printer Driver 


As an alternative, you can download the CUPS printer driver for eComStation. This is a 
printer driver ported from Linux to eComStation. It supports a wide variety of printers. 
Almost every printer sold for Apple's Mac OS X is supported by CUPS on eComStation 
because Mac OS also uses CUPS. There are some exceptions however. A small 
percentage of printers are only supported on Mac OS X. For more information on how 
to install CUPS, how to download it and which printers are supported, please visit the 


website: http://svn.netlabs.org/ecups/wiki/HowTo. 


4.9 What Video Capture/TV Tuner Cards are Supported? 


On eComStation CD #2, you will find a set of legacy drivers for ISA/PCI TV tuner and 
video capture chip sets and also for the popular Brooktree 848 chip set. However, these 
drivers do not support current hardware. 


The commercial application Emperoar TV supports modern USB and PCI DVB/MPEG 
capture cards. For more information and which models are supported, please visit the 


website: http://www.s-t.de/emperoar/ 


4.10 How Do I Burn CD's/DVD's with eComStation? 


eComStation 2.0 comes with a trial version of RSJ CD writer. For more information, 
visit http://www.rsj.de. RSJ should work with just about any IDE, SCSI or USB/DVD 
burner. An alternative you can try is DVD toys from eCo software. A trial version of 
DVD toys can be found on eComStation CD #2 under the eCosoft tab. Go to: 


38 


http://en.ecomstation.ru/projects/dvdtoys/ for more information. 


4.11 More information on supported hardware. 


There are 2 good websites with more background information on which hardware is 
supported by eComStation. The website http://www.os2warp.be holds a lot of 
background information on how hardware works. The web page from eCo software has 
a large catalog of currently supported hardware, laptops, desktop machines, etc. For 


more information visit http://en.ecomstation.ru/hardware.php 


39 


5. Getting Support/Resolving Problems/General FAQ 
5.1 Getting support: 


eComStation Home & Student users are not entitled to receive support via telephone 
from Mensys B.V. Other eComStation resellers may decide to do support these users 
on there own terms. To get support, you need open a support ticket. Please visit 


http://www.ecomstation.com/support and click on the option: 


Create a support ticket 


When you create a support ticket, we need to know what version of eComStation you 
are using. You can determine what version of eComStation you have by checking your 
registration key. The eComStation registration key consists of something a username 
and a password. The username will look similar to ML20HW-XYZ123. The 5th 
character indicates the version, H indicates Home and Student, B indicates Business and 
S indicates Server edition. 


Before opening a ticket, please read this section of the manual carefully and also 
Chapter 5. Resolving Problems. By following these steps, you will provide us with 
the information we need to efficiently resolve your issue. Opening a support ticket 
without this information will delay the processing of your support request. 


Please describe the problem as clearly as possible. If possible, include the exact error 
message. In many cases, a seemingly insignificant error message will make it possible 
to resolve your issue. 


The most important thing we need from you is the file instlog.zip which is created by 
the eComStation installer, even if the installation process is interrupted. The file 
instlog.zip contains all the choices you made during installation of eComStation 2.0 and 
logs important information about your drive layout and what hardware is on your 
system. Find the file \VAR\LOG\INSTLOG.ZIP on your boot drive and include it 
along with those noted below when seeking support. 


If possible, please also attach the files: 


\CONFIG.SYS 
\popuplog.os2 


The files will be on your boot drive, if they exist. Also include 


40 


\IBMCOM\LANTRAN.LOG 
\IBMCOM\protocol.ini 
\IBMLAN\IBMLAN.INI 


These files will usually be one your boot drive, but may be on some other drive if you 
installed the corresponding components to an alternate drive. 


Use the following terminology in your ticket as this will make it easier to understand 
when you are experiencing problems using eComStation: 


CD boot problem - refers to the boot from eComStation CD #1 into the graphical 
installer where you can define your disk partitions and programs you want to install. 


Phase 1 install problem - use this phrase if the first portion of the installation of 
eComStation terminates/hangs while the system is still booted from CD #1 and copying 
files to hard disk. 


Phase 1 reboot problem — use this phrase to describe problems that occur when 
booting from the hard disk after the installer has completed copying the core files to the 
hard disk. This boot phase will display device driver names as they are loading and 
after the device drivers are loaded, will continue with the next phase of the installation. 


Phase 2 installation problem — use this phrase to describe crashes, hangs or other 
problems that occur after the core files have been copied to disk and the system has 
successfully rebooted from hard disk for the first time and the graphical installer has 
restarted. When the graphical installer restarts, it will display the progress slider and the 
elapsed time counter. Depending on the speed of your system, this installation phase 
should take no more than 40 minutes. If it takes longer, you probably have an 
installation hang that needs to be resolved. 


Installed System problem - use this phrase if your system is installed completely and 
you are experiencing stability issues or application issues. If you have made any 
modifications since the initial installation completed, please report what you have 
modified. 


Please also refer to the chapter titled 4. What Hardware is Supported by 
eComStation 2.0. It might help resolve problems you might have after configuring 


ACPI, enabling USB support or adding a sound driver. 


When a support ticket is opened, we will try to respond within 2 business days. 
Response time may longer if extensive research is required. 


41 


Once your system is installed, you will find all support documents conveniently located 
in the help center folder. Open this folder from Local System >Help Center. 





pp LITT eo 
Folder Edit View Selected Help 











J [1 $8) Help Center 

[=] SÌ Information 

[=] $$ Enhanced User Interface 
eStyler User's Guide 
[+] Sì IBM Convenience Package 
[=] Si Networking 

[+] $$) File and Print Services 
[+] SÌ Tcryip 

[+] SÌ Product Notes 

[+] Sì Program Development 

& Information fromthe Internet 
[=] SÌ Troubleshooting 

[+] SÌ Trace Facilities 
Serviceability and Troubleshooting Guide 
@ Online Support 
















i argani 
Folder Edit View Selected Help 


on Command Prompts Ea + abs 
È Drives Là Printers 
È) Help Center pT Startup 
Là Install Remove 5) System Setup 


= 


BS objects Obytes ti 




















Additional tools on CD #2: 


. Recovery and System Tools 
. Documentation for the Graham Utilities 
. Filesystem and Recovery tools. 


. \bontrial\trial\grahutil\graham20.inf 


Please note that the Graham Utilities can be run directly from CD to provide 
maintenance functions on your system. 


Community support 


Community support can be found by pointing your newsreader to 
news://news.ecomstation.com/. 


You can also access the news server with a web browser by going to: 


http://news.ecomstation.com/ 


42 


5.2 Resolving Problems 


If you are having problems installing eComStation 2.0 and your system hangs during 
one of the boots, do the following; 


When eComStation boots you will see a little white blob that says "eCS" in the upper 
left corner of your screen. When this blob displays you can: 


Press the key combination ALT-F2. This will display the name of each driver as 
it loads. 

If you are an advanced user, you can try pressing ALT-F4. This will allow you 
to select which drivers to load. 


Knowing exactly which driver hangs can often be extremely helpful in determining 
what needs to be done to resolve the hang. 


When booting from CD #1, you can also use the Pre-boot menu (described earlier in 
this Quickguide) and on the BOOT OPTIONS Miscellaneous page, toggle on the Edit 
CONFIG.SYS option. When you check this option, you will be able to edit the 
config.sys that the Pre-boot menu will use to boot from CD-ROM. 


5.3 General FAQ 


Some problems are not specific to eComStation 2.0. They are what we would call 
generic problems. Please review the following section if you have not yet identified any 
specific hardware problems. 


Q: I boot from CD-ROM to install eComStation and my system seems to “hang”. 


A: On some systems, the USB drivers can take longer to initialize. When you start your 
eComStation system with the ALT-F2 and see the system “hanging” on the last device 
driver displayed, this may not be an error loading the last device driver. It could be an 
error switching eComStation into full protected mode operation. See the section that 
discusses ACPI configuration for troubleshooting hints. 


Q: My machine locked up during installation or the install process stopped. How can I 
restart the installation? 


A: Try the following. On your hard disk, go to the directory \ECS\INSTALL\RSP\ and 
start RESUME.CMD. This may not always solve the problem. 


43 


Q: My system hangs when booting from a hard disk and I use a bootable JFS volume. I 
see on the screen CHKDSK process with a message indicating it can not continue. 
What can I do? 


A: Boot from eCS 2.0 CD #1. (If you get any warning from the DiskChecker, bypass 
this with the key CTRL-C). When the installer has started, press the SHIFT-F3 and 
type in the command “CHKDSK X: /F” where X: is the drive letter of your boot 
volume. 


Q: I set the JFS cache size with the option /CACHE: in the config.sys to 512,000 KiB. 
Why is my system unstable? 


A: We recommend that you limit the JFS cache to a maximum of 128,000 KiB 
depending on the amount of RAM that you have installed. 


Q: I'm trying to run a DOS application and it does not work. It gives an error when I try 
open a file from the DOS application or the application will not even start. What is 
wrong? 


A: There is a bug in the JFS file system that causes some old DOS applications not to 
work properly. We recommend that you create an HPFS partition with MiniLVM and 
install the application to the HPFS partition. 


Q: I'm certain my system works with APM.SYS to provide suspend and resume, but it 
was not installed. How can I resolve this? 


A: The APM files are installed to your hard disk by default. If you are certain that your 
system supports APM, add the following lines to your config.sys: 


DEVICE=X:\OS2\BOOT\APM.SYS 
DEVICE=X:\OS2\MDOS\VAPM.SYS 
RUN=X:\0S2\APMDAEMN.EXE 

(where X is the drive letter of your boot drive) 


44 


Q: I installed the IPX protocol to support a legacy Netware environment. Do I need to 
add anything on my Netware install? 


A: You need to add a file called "net.cfg" to the root directory of your boot drive with 
the following content: 


NETWARE REQUESTER 

PREFERRED TREE "DIX_HILLS" 

CACHE BUFFERS 30 

PACKET BURST OFF 

LARGE INTERNET PACKETS NEGOTIATED 

NAME CONTEXT "NEW_YORK.RR" 

The keyword "PREFERRED TREE" is used if you use an NDIS Netware environment. 
If you use bindery only mode, replace the keyword "PREFERRED TREE" by 
"PREFERRED SERVER". 


Q: I installed the IPX protocol to support a legacy Netware environment. I get a TRAP 
during the installation of eComStation in the module "RTSND." How can I fix this? 


A: Do not use a Realtek 8139 network card with the IPX/Netware client. 


Q: I have an IBM XSeries 345 server. When I boot from eComStation CD #1, I get a 
black screen trap in the module "RESOURCE". What do I do? 


A: Boot from eComStation CD #1, again. In the Pre-boot menu, select Legacy 
hardware from the menu option Target hardware. 


Q: I migrated a previous installation of OS/2/eComStation to eComStation 2.0. On 
volumes other than the install volume, folders sometimes do not open when I double- 
click on them. How do I fix this? 


A: This occurs if you have been using the XWorkplace Split View folders feature for 
these volumes in your previous eCS installation. Out of the box, eWorkplace does not 
support the Split View folders; only XWorkplace supports them. To solve this problem, 
open the settings notebook of the specific volumes and go to the Menu tab and change 
the "Open As" properties of the volume to "Icon View". Sub-folders will automatically 
inherit the "Open As" behavior from the parent. 


45 


6. License Agreement/Trademarks/Acknowledgments 


6.1 eComStation 2.0 End User License Agreement 


READ THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT 
CAREFULLY BEFORE INSTALLING AND USING THIS COMPUTER 
SOFTWARE AND THE ACCOMPANYING USER DOCUMENTATION (THE 
"PROGRAM"). THE PROGRAM IS COPYRIGHTED AND LICENSED (NOT 
SOLD). BY INSTALLING THE PACKAGE CONTAINING THE PROGRAM, YOU 
ARE ACCEPTING AND AGREEING TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE 
AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE NOT WILLING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF 
THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT, YOU SHOULD PROMPTLY RETURN THE 
PACKAGE TO THE PLACE OF PURCHASE TO ARRANGE FOR A REFUND OF 
YOUR PURCHASE. THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT REPRESENTS THE ENTIRE 
AGREEMENT CONCERNING THE PROGRAM BETWEEN YOU AND Mensys 
B.V. AND IT SUPERSEDES ANY PRIOR PROPOSAL, REPRESENTATION OR 
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE PARTIES. NOTE: IF YOU ARE USING A 
PREVIEW COPY OF THIS SOFTWARE, YOU ARE REQUIRED TO INSTALL THE 
GENERALLY RELEASED PRODUCT. AT THAT TIME, NO FURTHER USE OF 
THE PREVIEW SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED. 


Product versions: 


The following eComStation 2.0 versions are available: 

eComStation 2.0 Home & Student 

eComStation 2.0 Business Edition 

eComStation 2.0 Server Edition 
The Home & Student version can be used by any private or small office user. As a 
private or small office user, you are allowed to have up to 5 licenses installed for 
production usage. If you need to install more than 5 licenses, you are required to 
purchase the Business Edition. 


License Grant: 


Licensor hereby grants to you, and you accept, a nonexclusive license to use the 
Program and the computer programs contained therein in machine readable, object code 
form only (collectively referred to as the "Software", see Information About Your 
Software, later on this document) and the accompanying User Documentation, only as 
authorized in this License Agreement. A license for each copy of eComStation is 
required for each computer owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by you; or in the 


46 


event of the inoperability of that computer, on a backup computer selected by you. 
Neither concurrent use on two or more computers nor use in a local area network or 
other network is permitted without separate authorization and the payment of other 
license fees. 


In addition to your primary computer, eComStation may be stored on secondary 
machine, such as a home or portable computer, provided that eComStation is not in 
active use on both machines at the same time. This would expressly prohibit running 
VNC eComStation on the primary computer from the secondary machine, a home or 
portable computer. You agree that you will not assign, sublicense, transfer, pledge, 
lease, rent, or share your rights under this License Agreement without permission from 
Mensys B.V. You agree that you may not reverse assemble, reverse compile, or 
otherwise translate the Software. 


A program is considered in use when it resides in memory or is otherwise stored in the 
machine. A program stored on a network server solely for the purpose of being 
distributed to other machines is not considered to be in use, but your use may not exceed 
the total number of users authorized. You may transfer all your rights and obligations 
under this license to another party. To transfer such rights and obligations, you must 
transfer an unaltered copy of this license agreement. 


Upon loading the Software into your computer, you may retain the Program Media for 
backup purposes. In addition, you may make one copy of the Software on a second set 
of media for the purpose of backup in the event the Program media is damaged or 
destroyed. You may make one copy of the User's Manual for backup purposes. Any 
such copies of the Software or the User's Manual shall include Licensor's copyright and 
other proprietary notices. Except as authorized under this paragraph, no copies of the 
Program or any portions thereof may be made by you or any person under your 
authority or control. 


Licensor's Rights: 


You acknowledge and agree that the Software and the User's Manual are proprietary 
products of Licensor protected under European Union copyright law and other countries 
as appropriate. You further acknowledge and agree that all rights, title and interest in 
and to the Program, including associated intellectual property rights, are and shall 
remain with Licensor. This License Agreement does not convey to you an interest in or 
to the Program, but only a limited right of use revocable in accordance with the terms of 
this "License Agreement." 


47 


License Fees: 


The license fees paid by you are paid in consideration of the licenses granted under this 
License Agreement. Payments must be made to Mensys B.V., or designated distributors 
and resellers from whom you acquired eComStation. You agree to notify Mensys B.V., 
or its distributors or resellers and pay any applicable charges if you change the number 
of users. 


Term: 


This License Agreement is effective upon your installation and use of this package and 
shall continue until terminated. You may terminate this License Agreement at any time 
by returning the Program and all copies thereof, save one copy which may be kept for 
your archive and extracts therefrom to Licensor. Licensor may terminate this License 
Agreement upon the breach by you of any term hereof. Upon such termination by 
Licensor, you agree to return to Licensor the Program and all copies and portions 
thereof. 


Limited Warranty: 


Licensor warrants, for your benefit alone, for a period of 90 days from the date of 
commencement of this License Agreement (referred to as the "Warranty Period") that 
the Program media in which the Software is contained are free from defects in material 
and workmanship. Licensor further warrants, for your benefit alone, that during the 
Warranty Period the Program shall operate substantially in accordance with the 
functional specifications in the User's Manual. Mensys B.V. does not warrant 
uninterrupted or error-free operation of eComStation. 


If during the Warranty Period, a defect in the Program appears, you may return the 
Program to your distributor for either replacement or, if so elected by distributor, refund 
of amounts paid by you under this License Agreement. You agree that the foregoing 
constitutes your sole and exclusive remedy for breach by Licensor of any warranties 
made under this Agreement. 


EXCEPT FOR THE WARRANTIES SET FORTH ABOVE, THE PROGRAM AND 
THE SOFTWARE CONTAINED THEREIN, ARE LICENSED "AS IS," AND 
LICENSOR DISCLAIMS ANY AND ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, WHETHER 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE. 


48 


Limitation of Liability: 


Licensor's cumulative liability to you or any other party for any loss or damages 
resulting from any claims, demands, or actions arising out of or relating to this 
Agreement shall not exceed the license fee paid to Licensor for the use of the Program. 
In no event shall Licensor be liable for any indirect, incidental, consequential, special, 
or exemplary damages or lost profits, even if Licensor has been advised of the 
possibility of such damages. THE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY 
FOR INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIALDAMAGES, MAY BE CONTROLLED 
BY LOCAL REGULATION, SO THE ABOVE LIMITATION OR EXCLUSION 
MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. 


Trademark: 

eComStation, eComServer are trademarks of Licensor. No right, license, or interest to 
such trademark is granted hereunder and you agree that no such right, license, or 
interest shall be asserted by you with respect to such trademark. 


Governing Law: 


This License Agreement shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of 
the applicable jurisdiction. 


Costs of Litigation: 

If any action is brought by either party to this License Agreement against the other party 
regarding the subject matter hereof, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover, in 
addition to any other relief granted, reasonable attorney fees and expenses of litigation, 
as appropriate under applicable jurisdiction. 

Severability: 

Should any term of this License Agreement be declared void or unenforceable by any 
court of competent jurisdiction, such declaration shall have no effect on the remaining 
terms hereof. 

No Waiver: 

The failure of either party to enforce any rights granted hereunder or to take action 
against the other party in the event of any breach hereunder shall not be deemed a 


waiver by that party as to subsequent enforcement of rights or subsequent actions in the 


49 


event of future breaches. 
Information About Your Software: 
eComStation 2.0 includes a license to use the following products with eComStation: 


IBM OS/2 Warp V4, IBM Product Number 31L0480M 

Note: eComStation upgrade product users are required to supply their own valid 
license for OS/2 V4 

IBM OS/2 Warp Convenience Pak, IBM Product Number AS6YSNA 

eWP - an OEM version of XWorkplace 

eCSCoNet - an OEM version of ISDNPM 


Third Party Work: 


eComStation contains driver(s) and application(s) belonging to a Third Party, 
hereinafter referred to as Third Party Work (TPW). TPW is licensed to Mensys B.V. for 
distribution with eComStation from the following companies and or persons (hereinafter 
referred to as the licensor): 


3Com Corporation 

Abbotsbury Software Ltd. 

Artem GmbH 

AVM GmbH for International Communications Technology 
Analog Devices 

Broadcom 

Creative Technology Ltd. 

Cirrus Logic Inc. 

Christian Langanke (Internet Assistant). 

DAWICONTROL Computersysteme GmbH 

Eicon Networks Corporation 

Elsa AG 

HST High Soft Tech Gesellschaft fur Telekommunikation GmbH 
Intel 

Mainconcept 

Marvell Yukon (also covers:Syskonnect(Schneider & Koch) and Galileo 
Technology Ltd) 

Ralink 

Realtek 

Teles AG TCS 

Network card drivers from Yanagihara Nobuyuki (GOMI NDIS drivers) 


50 


In accordance with the agreements with HST, and Eicon, we must inform you that: 


The HST and Eicon ISDN drivers you receive with eComStation may 
not be installed on systems without a valid eComStation license. 


In accordance with the agreement with Creative Technology Ltd., we must inform you 

that: 
The supplied SB 16 and SB AWE 32/64 may only be used with Creative 
products. All copyrights, patents, trademarks belong to the respective 
licensor(s) of the TPW. The TPW is provided on an "AS IS" basis. No 
warranty of any kind is offered, and no claim of suitability for use on any 
system should be assumed. None of the drivers that come with 
eComStation can be redistributed, and may not be uploaded to FTP 
servers. 


eComStation 2.0 contains the Doodle Screen Saver. 


This software has been tested and found stable. However this screen saver should not be 
used on mission critical systems such as MEDICAL, NUCLEAR, AVIATION, 
NAVIGATION, MILITARY, OR OTHER HIGH RISK APPLICATIONS. 


The screen saver displays animations. These animations may contain certain flashing 
lights and/or light patterns. A very small percentage of people may experience epileptic 
seizures when exposed to certain patterns or backgrounds. Certain conditions can trigger 
previously unnoticed epileptic symptoms even with people who have no history of prior 
seizures or epilepsy. If any of the people for who this computer is accessible and/or 
visible and has an epileptic condition, consult your physician prior to using the screen 
saver. 


If you experience any of the following symptoms (after or while looking at the screen 
saver) - dizziness, eye and/or muscle twitches, altered vision, loss of awareness, being 
disorientated, or convulsions - IMMEDIATELY switch off the Doodle screen saver and 
consult your physician. 
eComStation 2.0 contains Quickmotion 2.0 and the Anpo video codecs. 
In accordance with the agreement with Andreas Portelo, we must inform you that: 

The Quickmotion 2.0 binaries have been licensed from Andreas Portelo 

by Mensys B.V. for inclusion with eComStation. These Quickmotion 


binaries that come with eComStation may only be used on systems with 


51 


a valid eComStation 2.0 license (or higher). This product is covered by 
the Mensys B.V. End User License Agreement. This software is 
Copyright (c) Andreas Portelo. Support is not provided by Andreas 
Portelo to customers. For support issues customers must contact 


http://www.ecomstation.com/support. 


eComStation 2.0 contains network card drivers from Intel: 
Usage of these drivers is under the following conditions: 


This Software is licensed for use only in conjunction with Intel component products. 
Use of the Software in conjunction with non-Intel component products is not licensed 
hereunder. You may not reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Software. 


NO OTHER RIGHTS. No rights or licenses are granted by Intel to You, expressly 

or by implication, with respect to any proprietary information or patent, copyright, 
mask work, trademark, trade secret, or other intellectual property right owned or 
controlled by Intel, except as expressly provided in this Agreement. 


OWNERSHIP OF SOFTWARE AND COPYRIGHTS. Title to all copies of the 
Software remains with Intel or its suppliers. The Software is copyrighted and 
protected by the laws of the United States and other countries, and international treaty 
provisions. You may not remove any copyright notices from the Software. Intel may 
make changes to the Software, or to items referenced therein, at any time without notice, 
but is not obligated to support or update the Software. Except as otherwise expressly 
provided, Intel grants no express or implied right under Intel patents, copyrights, 
trademarks, or other intellectual property rights. You may transfer the Software only if 
the recipient agrees to be fully bound by these terms and if you retain no copies of the 
Software. 


EXCLUSION OF OTHER WARRANTIES. EXCEPT AS PROVIDED ABOVE, THE 
SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS” WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND INCLUDING WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 


Intel does not warrant or assume responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of any 
information, text, graphics, links or other items contained within the Software. 

LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. IN NO EVENT SHALL INTEL OR ITS SUPPLIERS 
BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING, WITHOUT 
LIMITATION, LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, OR LOST 


52 


INFORMATION) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE 
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF INTEL HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
SUCH DAMAGES. SOME JURISDICTIONS PROHIBIT EXCLUSION OR 
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, SO THE ABOVE 
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. YOU MAY ALSO HAVE OTHER 
LEGAL RIGHTS THAT VARY FROM JURISDICTION TO JURISDICTION. 


eComStation contains Network drivers from Ralink: 


RALINK SOFTWARE END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT 
Copyright (C) RALINK TECHNOLOGY, CORP. All Rights Reserved. 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT LICENSE 


The SOFTWARE PRODUCT is protected by copyright laws and international 
copyright treaties, as well as other intellectual property laws and treaties. The 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT is licensed, not sold. 


1.GRANT OF LICENSE. 
This End-User License Agreement grants you the following rights: 


(1)Installation and Use. You may install and use an unlimited number of copies of the 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT. (2)Reproduction and Distribution. You may reproduce and 
distribute an unlimited number of copies of the SOFTWARE PRODUCT; provided that 
each copy shall be a true and complete copy, including all copyright and trademark 
notices, and shall be accompanied by a copy of this EULA. Copies of the SOFTWARE 
PRODUCT may be distributed as a standalone product or included with your own 
product. 


2.DESCRIPTION OF OTHER RIGHTS AND LIMITATIONS. 

Limitations on Reverse Engineering, Decompilation, and Disassembly. You may not 
reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the SOFTWARE PRODUCT, except and 
only to the extent that such activity is expressly permitted by applicable law 
notwithstanding this limitation. Hardware Requirements: You must have a RALINK 


Wireless product. 


The Ralink Drivers are provided with eComStation on an AS-IS basis 


53 


eComStation 2.0 contains network card drivers from Marvell Yukon: 


The Proprietary Deliverables are proprietary to Marvell and Mensys B.V. Subject to 
Mensys B.V. compliance with the terms and conditions of this agreement, Marvell 
hereby grants Mensys B.V., during the term of this Agreement, a worldwide, non- 
transferable, non-exclusive, revocable, royalty-free limited license to (i) use and 
reproduce the Proprietary Deliverables solely for development of Mensys B.V. and/or 
Mensys B.V.; and (ii) reproduce, have reproduced, display, perform, transmit, license, 
import, export, rent, lease and distribute through multiple tiers of distribution the 
Proprietary Deliverables, in binary or executable form, solely as incorporated into 
Mensys B.V. Product and/or Mensys B.V. Software or distributed solely for use with 
Mensys B.V. Products. No license is granted in any human readable (source) code of the 
Marvell network card drivers. The Marvell Drivers are provided with eComStation on 
an AS-IS basis. All rights remain owned by Marvell. 


eComStation 2.0 contains the MMIO FLAC codec (multimedia): 


Copyright 2001-2003 by Josh Coalson and Russell O'Connor. This library is free 
software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser 
General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 
of the License, or (at your option) any later version. This library is distributed in the 
hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the 
implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE. See the it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License for 
more details. 


eComStation 2.0 contains the MMIO OGG Vorbis codec (multimedia): 


This program is Copyright 2001-2003 by Xiphophorus and Russell O'Connor. 
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are 
permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 


Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of 
conditions and the following disclaimer. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce 
the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the 
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution. Neither the name 
of the Xiphophorus nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote 
products derived from this software without specific prior written permission. 


THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND 
CONTRIBUTORS “AS IS” AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, 


54 


INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE 
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS 
OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER 
CAUSED AND ON AN THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, 
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF 
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. 

The full source code of the the two above codecs can be downloaded from: 


http://math.berkeley.edu/~roconnor/MMAudioPak/ 
eComStation contains components of the Netscape 4.61 plugin pack. 


The components covered by this are the OpenMPEG codec in MMeCS and the browser 
plugins. These components are not supported by IBM. 


55 


6.2.Trademarks 


The following terms, are trademarks of Mensys B.V. in the United States, or other 
countries, or both: Managed Client, eComStation, eCS 


The following terms, are registered trademarks of International Business Machines 
Corporation in the United States, or other countries, or both: 
IBM, LAN Distance, OS/2, WebSphere, WIN-OS/2, Micro Channel, ServeRAID 


The following terms are trademarks of other companies: 

Approach, Freelance Graphics, Lotus, Lotus Notes, Lotus Organizer, Lotus SmartSuite, 
and WordPro are trademarks of Lotus Development Corporation in the United States, 
other countries, or both. Tivoli is a trademark of Tivoli Systems Inc. in the United 
States, other countries, or both. 


Java and all Java-based trademarks and logos are trademarks of Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
in the United States, other countries, or both. 


Microsoft, Windows, Windows NT, Windows XP,Vista,7 and the Windows logo are 
trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United States, other countries, or both. 


Other company, product, and service names may be trademarks or service marks 
of others. 


6.3 Acknowledgments 


Abbotsbury Software has been so kind to license their Hauppage drivers so these could 
be included with eComStation. These drivers allow the use of Hauppage TV boards to 
function under eComStation. For any commercial request regarding these drivers, please 
contact: 

Abbotsbury Software Ltd. 

(+44)-(0)1305-871543 


web: http://www.abbotsbury.com 


MainConcept GmbH has been so kind to license their OS/2 MJPEG codec for inclusion 
with eComStation. For more info on MainConcept, please have a look on the following 


web address: http://www.mainconcept.de 


rev 1.1 
© 2010, Mensys B.V. Printed in the Netherlands 


56 


